[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Get FreeBSD
-   Release Information
    -   Production Release:
        12.4
    -   Production Release:
        13.1
    -   Production Release:
        13.2
-   Snapshot Releases
    -   Upcoming Release:
        14.0
-   Ported Applications

FreeBSD 13.0-RELEASE README

Abstract

This document gives a brief introduction to FreeBSD 13.0-RELEASE. It
includes some information on how to obtain FreeBSD, a listing of various
ways to contact the FreeBSD Project, and pointers to some other sources
of information.

Table of Contents

-   Introduction

-   Obtaining FreeBSD

-   Contacting the FreeBSD Project

-   Further Reading

-   Acknowledgments

Introduction

This distribution is a release of FreeBSD 13.0-RELEASE, the latest point
along the 13-STABLE branch.

About FreeBSD

FreeBSD is an open source operating system derived from 4.4 BSD Lite2
for 64-bit x86-based PC hardware (amd64), 32-bit x86-based PC hardware
(i386), 64-bit Arm® ARMv8-A AArch64 systems (aarch64), 32-bit Arm®
ARMv6/7 systems (armv6/7), PowerPC® systems (powerpc, powerpc64), RISC-V
(riscv64) systems, and MIPS® systems (mips, mips64). FreeBSD works with
a wide variety of peripherals and configurations and can be used for
everything from software development to games to Internet Service
Provision.

This release of FreeBSD contains everything you need to run such a
system, including full source code for the kernel and all utilities in
the base distribution. With the source distribution installed, you can
literally recompile the entire system from scratch with one command,
making it ideal for students, researchers, or users who simply want to
see how it all works.

A large collection of third-party ported software (the Ports Collection)
is also provided to make it easy to obtain and install all your favorite
traditional UNIX® utilities for FreeBSD. Each port consists of a set of
scripts to retrieve, configure, build, and install a piece of software,
with a single command. Over 36000 ports, from editors to programming
languages to graphical applications, make FreeBSD a powerful and
comprehensive operating environment that extends far beyond what’s
provided by many commercial versions of UNIX®. Most ports are also
available as pre-compiled packages, which can be quickly installed via
the pkg(8) utility.

Target Audience

This release of FreeBSD is suitable for all users. It has undergone a
period of testing and quality assurance checking to ensure the highest
reliability and dependability.

Obtaining FreeBSD

FreeBSD may be obtained in a variety of ways. The most convenient way is
to download a release image. Links to images for recent releases can be
found on the FreeBSD Web site’s download page. This page includes
information about the different types of images available as well as
other ways to obtain a copy of FreeBSD.

Contacting the FreeBSD Project

Email and Mailing Lists

For any questions or general technical support issues, please send mail
to the FreeBSD general questions mailing list.

If you’re tracking the 13-STABLE development efforts, you must join the
FreeBSD-STABLE mailing list, in order to keep abreast of recent
developments and changes that may affect the way you use and maintain
the system.

Being a largely-volunteer effort, the FreeBSD Project is always happy to
have extra hands willing to help-there are already far more desired
enhancements than there is time to implement them. To contact the
developers on technical matters, or with offers of help, please send
mail to the FreeBSD technical discussions mailing list.

Please note that these mailing lists can experience significant amounts
of traffic. If you have slow or expensive mail access, or are only
interested in keeping up with major FreeBSD events, you may find it
preferable to subscribe instead to the FreeBSD announcements mailing
list.

All of the mailing lists can be freely joined by anyone wishing to do
so. Visit the FreeBSD Mailman Info Page. This will give you more
information on joining the various lists, accessing archives, etc. There
are a number of mailing lists targeted at special interest groups not
mentioned here; more information can be obtained either from the Mailman
pages or the mailing lists section of the FreeBSD Web site.

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Important                         | Do not send email to the lists    |
|                                   | asking to be subscribed. Use the  |
|                                   | Mailman interface instead.        |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Submitting Problem Reports

Suggestions, bug reports and contributions of code are always valued.
Please do not hesitate to report any problems you may find. Bug reports
with attached fixes are of course even more welcome.

The preferred method to submit bug reports from a machine with Internet
connectivity is to use the Bugzilla bug tracker. Problem Reports (PRs)
submitted in this way will be filed and their progress tracked; the
FreeBSD developers will do their best to respond to all reported bugs as
soon as possible. A list of all active PRs is available on the FreeBSD
Web site; this list is useful to see what potential problems other users
have encountered.

For more information, "Writing FreeBSD Problem Reports", available on
the FreeBSD Web site, has a number of helpful hints on writing and
submitting effective problem reports.

Further Reading

There are many sources of information about FreeBSD; some are included
with this distribution, while others are available on-line or in print
versions.

Release Documentation

A number of other files provide more specific information about this
release distribution. These files are provided in various formats. Most
distributions will include both ASCII text (.TXT) and HTML (.HTM)
renditions. Some distributions may also include other formats such as
Portable Document Format (.PDF).

-   README.TXT: This file, which gives some general information about
    FreeBSD as well as some cursory notes about obtaining a
    distribution.

-   RELNOTES.TXT: The release notes, showing what’s new and different in
    FreeBSD 13.0-RELEASE compared to the previous release (FreeBSD
    12.2-RELEASE).

-   HARDWARE.TXT: The hardware compatibility list, showing devices with
    which FreeBSD has been tested and is known to work.

-   ERRATA.TXT: Release errata. Late-breaking, post-release information
    can be found in this file, which is principally applicable to
    releases (as opposed to snapshots). It is important to consult this
    file before installing a release of FreeBSD, as it contains the
    latest information on problems which have been found and fixed since
    the release was created.

During installation, these documents are available via the Documentation
menu. Once the system is installed, you can revisit this menu by
re-running the bsdinstall(8) utility.

Note:
To learn about any late-breaking news or post-release problems, it is
extremely important to read the errata for any given release before
installing it. The errata file accompanying each release (most likely
right next to this file) is already out of date by definition, but other
copies are kept updated on the Internet and should be consulted as the
current errata for this release. These other copies of the errata are
located at https://www.FreeBSD.org/releases (as well as any sites which
keep up-to-date mirrors of this location).

Manual Pages

As with almost all UNIX® like operating systems, FreeBSD comes with a
set of on-line manual pages, accessed through the man(1) command or
through the hypertext manual pages gateway on the FreeBSD Web site. In
general, the manual pages provide information on the different commands
and APIs available to the FreeBSD user.

In some cases, manual pages are written to give information on
particular topics. Notable examples of such manual pages are tuning(7)
(a guide to performance tuning), security(7) (an introduction to FreeBSD
security), and style(9) (a style guide to kernel coding).

Books and Articles

Two highly-useful collections of FreeBSD-related information, maintained
by the FreeBSD Project, are the FreeBSD Handbook and FreeBSD
FAQ(Frequently Asked Questions document). On-line versions of the
Handbook and FAQ are always available from the FreeBSD Documentation
page or its mirrors. If you install the doc distribution set, you can
use a Web browser to read the Handbook and FAQ locally. In particular,
note that the Handbook contains a step-by-step guide to installing
FreeBSD.

A number of on-line books and articles, also maintained by the FreeBSD
Project, cover more-specialized, FreeBSD-related topics. This material
spans a wide range of topics, from effective use of the mailing lists,
to dual-booting FreeBSD with other operating systems, to guidelines for
new committers. Like the Handbook and FAQ, these documents are available
from the FreeBSD Documentation Page or in the doc distribution set.

A listing of other books and documents about FreeBSD can be found in the
bibliography of the FreeBSD Handbook. Because of FreeBSD’s strong UNIX®
heritage, many other articles and books written for UNIX® systems are
applicable as well, some of which are also listed in the bibliography.

Acknowledgments

FreeBSD represents the cumulative work of many hundreds, if not
thousands, of individuals from around the world who have worked
countless hours to bring about this release. For a complete list of
FreeBSD developers and contributors, please see "Contributors to
FreeBSD" on the FreeBSD Web site or any of its mirrors.

Special thanks also go to the many thousands of FreeBSD users and
testers all over the world, without whom this release simply would not
have been possible.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: June 19, 2021 by Danilo G. Baio

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
