[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

About FreeBSD

What is FreeBSD?

FreeBSD is an operating system for a variety of platforms which focuses
on features, speed, and stability. It is derived from BSD, the version
of UNIX® developed at the University of California, Berkeley. It is
developed and maintained by a large community.

Cutting edge features

FreeBSD offers advanced networking, performance, security and
compatibility features today which are still missing in other operating
systems, even some of the best commercial ones.

Powerful Internet solutions

FreeBSD makes an ideal Internet or Intranet server. It provides robust
network services under the heaviest loads and uses memory efficiently to
maintain good response times for thousands of simultaneous user
processes.

Advanced Embedded Platform

FreeBSD brings advanced network operating system features to appliance
and embedded platforms, from higher-end Intel-based appliances to ARM,
PowerPC, and MIPS hardware platforms. From mail and web appliances to
routers, time servers, and wireless access points, vendors around the
world rely on FreeBSD’s integrated build and cross-build environments
and advanced features as the foundation for their embedded products. And
the Berkeley open source license lets them decide how many of their
local changes they want to contribute back.

Run a huge number of applications

With over 33,000 ported libraries and applications, FreeBSD supports
applications for desktop, server, appliance, and embedded environments.

Easy to install

FreeBSD can be installed from a variety of media including CD-ROM, DVD,
or directly over the network using FTP or NFS. All you need are these
directions.

FreeBSD is free

[The BSD Daemon]

While you might expect an operating system with these features to sell
for a high price, FreeBSD is available free of charge and comes with the
source code. If you would like to purchase or download a copy to try
out, more information is available.

Contributing to FreeBSD

It is easy to contribute to FreeBSD. All you need to do is find a part
of FreeBSD which you think could be improved and make those changes
(carefully and cleanly) and submit that back to the Project by means of
a bug report or a committer, if you know one. This could be anything
from documentation to artwork to source code. See the Contributing to
FreeBSD article for more information.

Even if you are not a programmer, there are other ways to contribute to
FreeBSD. The FreeBSD Foundation is a non-profit organization for which
direct contributions are fully tax deductible. Please visit the Contact
Us page for more information.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: June 19, 2021 by Danilo G. Baio

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
