[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

About Applications for FreeBSD

Experience the possibilities with FreeBSD

FreeBSD can handle nearly any task you would expect of a UNIX®
workstation, as well as many you might not expect:

FreeBSD is a true open system with full source code.

There is no doubt that so-called open systems are the requirement for
today’s computing applications. But no commercial vendor-supplied
solution is more open than one which includes full source code to the
entire operating system, including the kernel and all of the system
daemons, programs, and utilities. You can modify any part of FreeBSD to
suit your personal, organizational, or corporate needs.

With its generous licensing policy, you can use FreeBSD as the basis for
any number of free or commercial applications.

FreeBSD runs thousands of applications.

Because FreeBSD is based on 4.4BSD, an industry-standard version of
UNIX, it is easy to compile and run programs. FreeBSD also includes an
extensive packages collection and ports collection that bring
precompiled and easy-to-build software right to your desktop or
enterprise server. There is also a growing number of commercial
applications written for FreeBSD.

Here are some examples of the environments in which FreeBSD is used:

-   Internet services. Many Internet Service Providers (ISPs) find
    FreeBSD ideal, running WWW, Usenet news, FTP, Email, and other
    services. Ready-to-run software like the NGINX or Apache web server
    or the ProFTPD or vsftpd FTP server make it easy to set up a
    business or community-centered ISP. Of course, with FreeBSD’s
    unbeatable networking, your users will enjoy high speed, reliable
    services.

-   X Window workstation. From an inexpensive X terminal to an advanced
    X display, FreeBSD works quite well. Free X software (X.Org(T))
    comes with the system. NVIDIA offers native drivers for their
    high-performance graphics hardware, and the industry standard Motif®
    and OpenGL® libraries are supported. The Xfce and LXDE products
    provide a desktop environment. The KDE and GNOME desktop
    environments also enjoy full support and provide office suite
    functionality, with further good functionality available in the
    LibreOffice, OpenOffice.Org and TextMaker products.

-   Networking. From packet filtering to routing to name service,
    FreeBSD can turn any PC into a Internet firewall, email host, print
    server, PC/NFS server, and more.

-   Software development. A suite of development tools comes with
    FreeBSD, including the GNU C/C++ compiler and debugger. The
    LLVM-based clang suite is also provided and will eventually replace
    the GNU suite. Java® and Tcl/Tk development are also possible for
    example, and more esoteric programming languages like Icon work just
    fine, too. And FreeBSD’s shared libraries have always been easy to
    make and use. You can also choose from a wide range of popular and
    powerful editors, such as Emacs and Vim.

-   Net surfing. A real UNIX workstation makes a great Internet
    surfboard. FreeBSD versions of Chromium and Firefox are available
    for serious web users. Surf the web, publish your own web pages,
    read Usenet news, and send and receive email with a FreeBSD system
    on your desktop.

-   Education and research. FreeBSD makes an excellent research platform
    because it includes complete source code. Students and researchers
    of operating systems or other computer science fields can benefit
    greatly from such an open and well-documented system.

-   And much more. Accounting, action games, MIS databases, scientific
    visualization, video conferencing, Internet relay chat (IRC), home
    automation, multiuser dungeons, bulletin board systems, image
    scanning, and more are all real uses for FreeBSD today.

FreeBSD is an operating system that will grow with your needs.

Though FreeBSD is free software, it is also user supported software. Any
questions you have can be posted to hundreds of FreeBSD developers and
users simply by e-mailing the freebsd-questions@FreeBSD.org mailing
list.

FreeBSD also has a worldwide group of programmers and writers who fix
bugs, add new features and document the system. Support for new devices
or special features is an almost constant development process, and the
team keeps a special eye out for problems which affect system stability.
FreeBSD users are quite proud of not only how fast but how reliable
their systems are.

What experts have to say . . .

"FreeBSD handles [our] heavy load quite well and it is nothing short of
amazing. Salutations to the FreeBSD team."

---Mark Hittinger, administrator of WinNet Communications, Inc.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: July 24, 2022 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
