
Preface

Intended Audience

The FreeBSD newcomer will find that the first section of this book
guides the user through the FreeBSD installation process and gently
introduces the concepts and conventions that underpin UNIX®. Working
through this section requires little more than the desire to explore,
and the ability to take on board new concepts as they are introduced.

Once you have traveled this far, the second, far larger, section of the
Handbook is a comprehensive reference to all manner of topics of
interest to FreeBSD system administrators. Some of these chapters may
recommend that you do some prior reading, and this is noted in the
synopsis at the beginning of each chapter.

For a list of additional sources of information, please see
Bibliography.

Fourth Edition

The current version of the Handbook represents the cumulative effort of
a working group that has been reviewing and updating all Handbook
content. These are the major updates since the fourth edition of the
Handbook.

-   The Handbook has been converted from Docbook to Hugo and AsciiDoctor

-   The FreeBSD Documentation Portal has been created.

-   Wayland has been added with information about installing and
    configuring Wayland under FreeBSD.

-   The Bibliography has been extensively updated.

Third Edition

The current online version of the Handbook represents the cumulative
effort of many hundreds of contributors over the past 10 years. The
following are some of the significant changes since the two volume third
edition was published in 2004:

-   WINE has been added with information about how to run Windows®
    applications on FreeBSD.

-   DTrace has been added with information about the powerful DTrace
    performance analysis tool.

-   Other File Systems have been added with information about non-native
    file systems in FreeBSD, such as ZFS from Sun™.

-   Security Event Auditing has been added to cover the new auditing
    capabilities in FreeBSD and explain its use.

-   Virtualization has been added with information about installing
    FreeBSD on virtualization software.

-   Installing FreeBSD has been added to cover installation of FreeBSD
    using the new installation utility, bsdinstall.

Second Edition (2004)

The third edition was the culmination of over two years of work by the
dedicated members of the FreeBSD Documentation Project. The printed
edition grew to such a size that it was necessary to publish as two
separate volumes. The following are the major changes in this new
edition:

-   Configuration and Tuning has been expanded with new information
    about the ACPI power and resource management, the cron system
    utility, and more kernel tuning options.

-   Security has been expanded with new information about virtual
    private networks (VPNs), file system access control lists (ACLs),
    and security advisories.

-   Mandatory Access Control is a new chapter with this edition. It
    explains what MAC is and how this mechanism can be used to secure a
    FreeBSD system.

-   Storage has been expanded with new information about USB storage
    devices, file system snapshots, file system quotas, file and network
    backed filesystems, and encrypted disk partitions.

-   A troubleshooting section has been added to PPP.

-   Electronic Mail has been expanded with new information about using
    alternative transport agents, SMTP authentication, UUCP, fetchmail,
    procmail, and other advanced topics.

-   Network Servers is all new with this edition. This chapter includes
    information about setting up the Apache HTTP Server, ftpd, and
    setting up a server for Microsoft® Windows® clients with Samba. Some
    sections from Advanced Networking were moved here to improve the
    presentation.

-   Advanced Networking has been expanded with new information about
    using Bluetooth® devices with FreeBSD, setting up wireless networks,
    and Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) networking.

-   A glossary has been added to provide a central location for the
    definitions of technical terms used throughout the book.

-   A number of aesthetic improvements have been made to the tables and
    figures throughout the book.

First Edition (2001)

The second edition was the culmination of over two years of work by the
dedicated members of the FreeBSD Documentation Project. The following
were the major changes in this edition:

-   A complete Index has been added.

-   All ASCII figures have been replaced by graphical diagrams.

-   A standard synopsis has been added to each chapter to give a quick
    summary of what information the chapter contains, and what the
    reader is expected to know.

-   The content has been logically reorganized into three parts:
    "Getting Started", "System Administration", and "Appendices".

-   FreeBSD Basics has been expanded to contain additional information
    about processes, daemons, and signals.

-   Installing Applications: Packages and Ports has been expanded to
    contain additional information about binary package management.

-   The X Window System has been completely rewritten with an emphasis
    on using modern desktop technologies such as KDE and GNOME on
    XFree86™ 4.X.

-   The FreeBSD Booting Process has been expanded.

-   Storage has been written from what used to be two separate chapters
    on "Disks" and "Backups". We feel that the topics are easier to
    comprehend when presented as a single chapter. A section on RAID
    (both hardware and software) has also been added.

-   Serial Communications has been completely reorganized and updated
    for FreeBSD 4.X/5.X.

-   PPP has been substantially updated.

-   Many new sections have been added to Advanced Networking.

-   Electronic Mail has been expanded to include more information about
    configuring sendmail.

-   Linux® Binary Compatibility has been expanded to include information
    about installing Oracle® and SAP® R/3®.

-   The following new topics are covered in this second edition:

    -   Configuration and Tuning.

    -   Multimedia.

Organization of This Book

This book is split into five logically distinct sections. The first
section, Getting Started, covers the installation and basic usage of
FreeBSD. It is expected that the reader will follow these chapters in
sequence, possibly skipping chapters covering familiar topics. The
second section, Common Tasks, covers some frequently used features of
FreeBSD. This section, and all subsequent sections, can be read out of
order. Each chapter begins with a succinct synopsis that describes what
the chapter covers and what the reader is expected to already know. This
is meant to allow the casual reader to skip around to find chapters of
interest. The third section, System Administration, covers
administration topics. The fourth section, Network Communication, covers
networking and server topics. The fifth section contains appendices of
reference information.

Introduction

    Introduces FreeBSD to a new user. It describes the history of the
    FreeBSD Project, its goals and development model.

Installing FreeBSD

    Walks a user through the entire installation process of FreeBSD 9.x
    and later using bsdinstall.

FreeBSD Basics

    Covers the basic commands and functionality of the FreeBSD operating
    system. If you are familiar with Linux® or another flavor of UNIX®
    then you can probably skip this chapter.

Installing Applications: Packages and Ports

    Covers the installation of third-party software with both FreeBSD’s
    innovative "Ports Collection" and standard binary packages.

The X Window System

    Describes the X Window System in general and using X11 on FreeBSD in
    particular. Also describes common desktop environments such as KDE
    and GNOME.

Wayland

    Describes the Wayland display server in general and using Wayland on
    FreeBSD in particular. Also describes common compositors such as
    Wayfire, Hikari and Sway.

Desktop Applications

    Lists some common desktop applications, such as web browsers and
    productivity suites, and describes how to install them on FreeBSD.

Multimedia

    Shows how to set up sound and video playback support for your
    system. Also describes some sample audio and video applications.

Configuring the FreeBSD Kernel

    Explains why you might need to configure a new kernel and provides
    detailed instructions for configuring, building, and installing a
    custom kernel.

Printing

    Describes managing printers on FreeBSD, including information about
    banner pages, printer accounting, and initial setup.

Linux® Binary Compatibility

    Describes the Linux® compatibility features of FreeBSD. Also
    provides detailed installation instructions for many popular Linux®
    applications such as Oracle® and Mathematica®.

WINE

    Describes WINE and provides detailed installation instructions. Also
    describes how WINE operates, how to install a GUI helper, how to run
    Windows® applications on FreeBSD, and offers other tips and
    solutions.

Configuration and Tuning

    Describes the parameters available for system administrators to tune
    a FreeBSD system for optimum performance. Also describes the various
    configuration files used in FreeBSD and where to find them.

The FreeBSD Booting Process

    Describes the FreeBSD boot process and explains how to control this
    process with configuration options.

Security

    Describes many different tools available to help keep your FreeBSD
    system secure, including Kerberos, IPsec and OpenSSH.

Jails

    Describes the jails framework, and the improvements of jails over
    the traditional chroot support of FreeBSD.

Mandatory Access Control

    Explains what Mandatory Access Control (MAC) is and how this
    mechanism can be used to secure a FreeBSD system.

Security Event Auditing

    Describes what FreeBSD Event Auditing is, how it can be installed,
    configured, and how audit trails can be inspected or monitored.

Storage

    Describes how to manage storage media and filesystems with FreeBSD.
    This includes physical disks, RAID arrays, optical and tape media,
    memory-backed disks, and network filesystems.

GEOM: Modular Disk Transformation Framework

    Describes what the GEOM framework in FreeBSD is and how to configure
    various supported RAID levels.

The OpenZFS storage platform

    Describes the OpenZFS storage platform and provides a quick-start
    guide and information about advanced topics running OpenZFS under
    FreeBSD.

Other File Systems

    Examines support for non-native file systems under FreeBSD like
    ext2, ext3 and ext4.

Virtualization

    Describes what virtualization systems offer, and how they can be
    used with FreeBSD.

Localization - i18n/L10n Usage and Setup

    Describes how to use FreeBSD in languages other than English. Covers
    both system and application level localization.

Updating and Upgrading FreeBSD

    Explains the differences between FreeBSD-STABLE, FreeBSD-CURRENT,
    and FreeBSD releases. Describes which users would benefit from
    tracking a development system and outlines that process. Covers the
    methods users may take to update their system to the latest security
    release.

DTrace

    Describes how to configure and use the DTrace tool from Sun™ on
    FreeBSD. Dynamic tracing can help locate performance issues, by
    performing real time system analysis.

USB Device Mode / USB OTG

    Explains the use of USB Device Mode and USB On The Go (USB OTG) on
    FreeBSD.

PPP

    Describes how to use PPP to connect to remote systems in FreeBSD.

Electronic Mail

    Explains the different components of an email server and dives into
    simple configuration topics for the most popular mail server
    software: sendmail.

Network Servers

    Provides detailed instructions and example configuration files to
    set up your FreeBSD machine as a network filesystem server, domain
    name server, network information system server, or time
    synchronization server.

Firewalls

    Explains the philosophy behind software-based firewalls and provides
    detailed information about the configuration of the different
    firewalls available for FreeBSD.

Advanced Networking

    Describes many networking topics, including sharing an Internet
    connection with other computers on your LAN, advanced routing
    topics, wireless networking, Bluetooth®, ATM, IPv6, and much more.

Obtaining FreeBSD

    Lists different sources for obtaining FreeBSD media on CDROM or DVD
    as well as different sites on the Internet that allow you to
    download and install FreeBSD.

Bibliography

    This book touches on many different subjects that may leave you
    hungry for a more detailed explanation. The bibliography lists many
    excellent books that are referenced in the text.

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
Resources on the Internet

    Describes the many forums available for FreeBSD users to post
    questions and engage in technical conversations about FreeBSD.

OpenPGP Keys

    Lists the PGP fingerprints of several FreeBSD Developers.

Conventions used in this book

To provide a consistent and easy to read text, several conventions are
followed throughout the book.

Typographic Conventions

Italic

    An italic font is used for filenames, URLs, emphasized text, and the
    first usage of technical terms.

Monospace

    A monospaced font is used for error messages, commands, environment
    variables, names of ports, hostnames, user names, group names,
    device names, variables, and code fragments.

Bold

    A bold font is used for applications, commands, and keys.

User Input

Keys are shown in bold to stand out from other text. Key combinations
that are meant to be typed simultaneously are shown with + between the
keys, such as:

Ctrl+Alt+Del

Meaning the user should type the Ctrl, Alt, and Del keys at the same
time.

Keys that are meant to be typed in sequence will be separated with
commas, for example:

Ctrl+X, Ctrl+S

Would mean that the user is expected to type the Ctrl and X keys
simultaneously and then to type the Ctrl and S keys simultaneously.

Examples

Examples starting with C:\> indicate a MS-DOS® command. Unless otherwise
noted, these commands may be executed from a "Command Prompt" window in
a modern Microsoft® Windows® environment.

    C:\> tools\fdimage floppies\kern.flp A:

Examples starting with # indicate a command that must be invoked as the
superuser in FreeBSD. You can login as root to type the command, or
login as your normal account and use su(1) to gain superuser privileges.

    # dd if=kern.flp of=/dev/fd0

Examples starting with % indicate a command that should be invoked from
a normal user account. Unless otherwise noted, C-shell syntax is used
for setting environment variables and other shell commands.

    % top

Acknowledgments

The book you are holding represents the efforts of many hundreds of
people around the world. Whether they sent in fixes for typos, or
submitted complete chapters, all the contributions have been useful.

Several companies have supported the development of this document by
paying authors to work on it full-time, paying for publication, etc. In
particular, BSDi (subsequently acquired by Wind River Systems) paid
members of the FreeBSD Documentation Project to work on improving this
book full time leading up to the publication of the first printed
edition in March 2000 (ISBN 1-57176-241-8). Wind River Systems then paid
several additional authors to make a number of improvements to the
print-output infrastructure and to add additional chapters to the text.
This work culminated in the publication of the second printed edition in
November 2001 (ISBN 1-57176-303-1). In 2003-2004, FreeBSD Mall, Inc,
paid several contributors to improve the Handbook in preparation for the
third printed edition. The third printed edition has been split into two
volumes. Both volumes have been published as The FreeBSD Handbook 3rd
Edition Volume 1: User Guide (ISBN 1-57176-327-9) and The FreeBSD
Handbook 3rd Edition Volume 2: Administrators Guide (ISBN
1-57176-328-7).

>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
