[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

Enabling Snapshots on Filesystems Using Journaled Soft Updates

Links:
Milestone 1 Core Changes URL: https://reviews.freebsd.org/D36491

Contact: Kirk McKusick <mckusick@FreeBSD.org>

The goal of this project is to make UFS/FFS filesystem snapshots
available when running with journaled soft updates.

First a bit of background. Soft updates have been available for UFS/FFS
since the mid 1990s. They eliminate the need for most synchronous disk
writes and keep the state of the filesystem sufficiently consistent that
it can be put back online after a crash without the need to run fsck(8).
However, it may incorrectly assume that some of its blocks are still in
use when in fact they are free. So, eventually it is necessary to take
the filesystem offline to run fsck(8) to reclaim these lost blocks. The
time to run fsck(8) is a function of the number of files in the
filesystem and the size of the filesystem. Large filesystems may take
hours to complete an fsck(8).

Enabling journaling reduces the time spent by fsck(8) cleaning up a
filesystem after a crash to a few seconds. With journaling, the time to
recover after a crash is a function of the amount of activity in the
filesystem in the minute before the crash. Journaled recovery time is
usually only a few seconds and never exceeds a minute.

The drawback to using journaling is that the writes to its log add an
extra write load to the media containing the filesystem. Thus a
write-intensive workload will have reduced throughput on a filesystem
running with journaling.

Like all journaling filesystems, the journal recovery will only fix
issues known to the journal. Specifically if a media error occurs, the
journal will not know about it and hence will not fix it. Thus when
using journaling, it is still necessary to run a full fsck every few
months or after a filesystem panic to check for and fix any errors
brought on by media failure.

A full fsck(8) is normally done on an offline filesystem. However, it
can be done by running fsck(8) on a snapshot of a live filesystem. When
running fsck(8) in the background on a live filesystem, the filesystem
performance will be about half of normal during the time that the
background fsck(8) is running. Running a full fsck on a UFS filesystem
is the equivalent of running a scrub on a ZFS filesystem.

The first milestone of this project has been completed. It is now
possible to take snapshots when running with journaled soft updates and
they can be used for doing background dumps on a live filesystem.

The second milestone of this project is to extend fsck(8) to be able to
do a background check using a snapshot on a filesystem running with
journaled soft updates. This milestone is expected by Q3 of 2023.

Sponsored by: The FreeBSD Foundation

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 23, 2023 by Lorenzo Salvadore

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
