[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

DRM drivers (i.e. GPU drivers)

Links:
Git repository on GitHub URL: https://github.com/freebsd/drm-kmod

Contact: Emmanuel Vadot <manu@FreeBSD.org>
Contact: Jean-Sébastien Pédron <dumbbell@FreeBSD.org>
Contact: The Graphics team <freebsd-x11@FreeBSD.org>

GPUs are driven by DRM drivers. They are developed specifically for
Linux using a permissive license. Our mission is to port those drivers
to FreeBSD to make sure modern GPUs are fully supported.

We didn’t publish a report to share our progress for a long time.
Therefore this status report entry will cover more than just the last
quarter.

Update to Linux 5.15 LTS and Linux 5.16

As of this status report, the graphics/drm-kmod meta port still installs
the DRM drivers from Linux 5.10 (released on December 13, 2020) on
FreeBSD 13.1 and greater. This version of the driver lacks support for
recent GPUs, in particular Intel 12th gen Alder Lake ones. In the past
months, we worked to update the DRM drivers to bring support for more
modern AMD and Intel GPUs.

The drm-kmod Git repository master branch was first updated to Linux
5.15 (released on October 31, 2021). This is an LTS branch in Linux and
we wanted to take advantage of that. Thus at that point, we followed two
paths:

-   A 5.15-lts branch was created to backport all bug fixes from Linux
    5.15.x patch releases. This work is now available in the
    drm-515-kmod port.

-   The porting effort from subsequent Linux versions continued. The
    master branch is now at Linux 5.16 (release on January 9, 2022).

The Intel driver from Linux 5.15 LTS supports 12th gen GPUs (Alder
Lake). It looks to work on FreeBSD but we only tested it lightly so far.
We still need more of that, that’s why graphics/drm-kmod still installs
graphics/drm-510-kmod instead of graphics/drm-515-kmod. At last, FreeBSD
should run as a desktop on this GPU generation and several new AMD GPUs,
though problems will surely appear through real test and use.

In the process, we updated firmwares to linux-firmware 20230210.

Linux 5.17 and future work

DRM drivers from Linux 5.17 (released on March 20, 2022) were already
ported but this work still sits in its own branch.

A couple of issues block further testing and the merge into the master
branch:

-   Our current integration with vt(4), the console/terminal driver, is
    quite far from the DRM drivers expectations which are based on
    Linux' fbdev KPI. Something changed in both the Intel and AMD
    drivers, meaning that vt(4) breaks with the 5.17 update.

-   The initial Linux 5.17 release does not contain the fixes backported
    to Linux 5.15 LTS. It seems quite unstable with the Intel 12th gen
    GPU mentioned earlier.

To address the issue with our vt(4) integration layer, we started to
write a new vt backend specifically to use the fbdev callbacks exposed
by the DRM drivers. This backend will be provided with the DRM drivers,
not the FreeBSD kernel, to make it easier to maintain as the drivers
evolve. This is still a work in progress and locking in particular is
tricky to get right.

Regarding the bad support of Intel 12th gen in the 5.17 update, bug
fixes backported to Linux 5.17.x patch releases will probably not be
ported as part of this work. Instead we will focus on Linux 5.18
(released on May 22, 2022) and following.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: April 14, 2023 by Lorenzo Salvadore

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
