[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

KDE on FreeBSD

Links:
KDE FreeBSD URL: https://freebsd.kde.org/
KDE Community FreeBSD URL: https://community.kde.org/FreeBSD

Contact: Adriaan de Groot <kde@FreeBSD.org>

The KDE on FreeBSD project aims to package almost all of the software
from the KDE Community for the FreeBSD ports tree. The software includes
a full desktop environment called KDE Plasma (for both X11 and Wayland)
and hundreds of applications that can be used on any FreeBSD machine.

The KDE team (kde@) is part of desktop@ and x11@ as well, building the
software stack to make FreeBSD beautiful and usable as a daily-driver
graphics-based desktop machine.

Q3 is summer in the northern hemisphere: bicycles were biked and
mountains were hiked and the team was psyched to chase the software we
like. And there were plenty of things to chase:

-   Three CMake releases landed, ending up with CMake 3.21.3 and libpkg
    support that once again works with CPack to produce FreeBSD
    packages.

-   Monthly releases of KDE Frameworks, KDE Plasma, and KDE Gear kept
    the exp-runs going. kde@ would like to thank Antoine for overseeing
    our many exp-run requests.

-   The KDE Plasma applications for monitoring the state of the
    system — ksysguard, Plasma system monitor, and supporting
    libraries — received a number of updates. FreeBSD support code has
    been merged upstream.

-   Across all of the Qt and KDE packages, an attempt was made to reduce
    how "heavy" the dependencies are. In general this means removing
    developer-only dependencies, avoiding the installation of test-code,
    etc. The underlying idea is to cut down the size of the installation
    when specific ports are installed, while preserving the "developer
    batteries included" character of the meta-ports.

-   A runtime-incompatibility was introduced by MySQL 5.7.34, which
    affected KDE’s personal-information-management applications and
    email. This was patched in the Qt ports.

-   The mixer application in KDE Plasma now defaults to using
    pulseaudio.

-   accountsservice was updated, and then patched with code from
    OpenBSD.

-   kdiff3 was updated to 1.9.3, now with upstream patches for some
    corner cases originally reported on FreeBSD.

-   kimageannotator and ksnip were updated, for nicer screenshots.

-   kraft, the small-business support application, was updated to
    version 0.97.

-   krita had an upstream release to address a performance issue, which
    then landed in FreeBSD.

-   kstars, the interactive planetarium and sky-watching application,
    was updated to 3.5.5.

-   latte-dock, used as an alternative launcher, updated to 0.10.2.

-   libphonenumber, Google’s library for dealing with all the ways phone
    numbers are represented around the world, received multiple updates.

-   maliit-framework, for on-screen keyboards, as added to the ports
    tree.

-   pipewire was kept up-to-date. This is a next-generation
    video-handling framework, and is being increasingly used in Wayland
    environments for efficient passing of video data between
    applications.

-   poppler was updated to version 21.09, with significant speed
    improvements.

-   sddm was made a little more robust when installed on its own, with
    xinitrc support.

-   math/eigen2 was removed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: November 15, 2021 by Daniel Ebdrup Jensen

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
