[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Get FreeBSD
-   Release Information
    -   Production Release:
        12.4
    -   Production Release:
        13.1
    -   Production Release:
        13.2
-   Snapshot Releases
    -   Upcoming Release:
        14.0
-   Ported Applications

FreeBSD 8.0-RELEASE Release Notes

Release Highlights

The highlights in the 8.0-RELEASE are the following:

-   A new virtualization container named “vimage” has been implemented.
    This is a jail with a virtualized instance of the FreeBSD network
    stack and can be created by using jail(8) command.

-   The FreeBSD netisr framework has been reimplemented for parallel
    threading support. This is a kernel network dispatch interface which
    allows device drivers (and other packet sources) to direct packets
    to protocols for directly dispatched or deferred processing. The new
    implementation supports up to one netisr thread per CPU, and several
    benchmarks on SMP machines show substantial performance improvement
    over the previous version.

-   The FreeBSD TTY layer has been replaced with a new one which has
    better support for SMP and robust resource handling. A tty now has
    own mutex and it is expected to improve scalability when compared to
    the old implementation based on the Giant lock.

-   [amd64, i386] The FreeBSD Linux emulation layer has been updated to
    version 2.6.16 and the default Linux infrastructure port is now
    emulators/linux_base-f10 (Fedora 10).

-   The FreeBSD GENERIC kernel now includes Trusted BSD MAC (Mandatory
    Access Control) support. No MAC policy module is loaded by default.

-   The FreeBSD USB subsystem has been reimplemented to support modern
    devices and better SMP scalability. The new implementation includes
    Giant-lock-free device drivers, a Linux compatibility layer,
    usbconfig(8) utility, full support for split transaction and
    isochronous transaction, and so on.

-   The FreeBSD CAM SCSI subsystem ( cam(4)) now includes experimental
    support for ATA/SATA/AHCI-compliant devices.

-   The shared vnode locking for pathname lookups in the VFS(9)
    subsystem has been improved.

-   The ZFS file system has been updated to version 13. The changes
    include ZFS operations by a regular user, L2ARC, ZFS Intent Log on
    separated disks (slog), sparse volumes, and so on.

-   The FreeBSD NFS subsystem now supports RPCSEC_GSS authentication on
    both the client and server.

-   The FreeBSD NFS subsystem now includes a new, experimental
    implementation with support for NFSv2, NFSv3, and NFSv4.

-   The wireless network support layer (net80211) now supports multiple
    BSS instances on the supported network devices.

-   The FreeBSD L2 address translation table has been reimplemented to
    reduce lock contention on parallel processing and simplify the
    routing logic.

-   The IGMPv3 and SSM (Source-Specific Multicast) including IPv6 SSM
    and MLDv2 have been added.

-   The ipsec(4) subsystem now supports NAT-Traversal (RFC 3948).

-   The GCC stack protection (also known as ProPolice) has been enabled
    in the FreeBSD base system.

-   The supported version of the GNOME desktop environment (x11/gnome2)
    has been updated to 2.26.3.

-   The supported version of the KDE desktop environment (x11/kde4) has
    been updated to 4.3.1.

For more details, please see the Detailed Release Notes.

A list of all platforms currently under development can be found on the
Supported Platforms page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: May 15, 2021 by Allan Jude

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
