[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   
-   Developer's Handbook
-   Committer's Guide
-   Porter's Handbook
-   Source code repositories
-   Release Engineering
-   Platforms
-   Project Ideas
-   Contributing

IPv6 in FreeBSD

Category Navigation

-   IPv6 in FreeBSD

-   World IPv6 Launch

-   World IPv6 Day

    -   www stats

Introduction

FreeBSD has shipped tightly integrated IPv6 support for over a decade,
with the FreeBSD 4.0 in 2000 the first release to include
"out-of-the-box" IPv6 support. These web pages document on-going IPv6
development in the FreeBSD community, including participation in IPv6
World Day 2011.

Latest news

-   January 12, 2012: 9.0-RELEASE no-IPv4 support (IPv6-only) snapshots
    available. For more details and download links see IPv6Only wiki
    page.

-   December 15, 2011: 9.0-RC3 no-IPv4 support (IPv6-only) snapshots
    available. For more details and download links see IPv6Only wiki
    page.

-   August 3, 2011: 9.0-BETA1 IPv6-only snapshots available. For more
    details and download links see IPv6Only wiki page.

-   June 9, 2011: Thanks to everyone having joined us for World IPv6
    Day. We have some (unspectacular) statistics of www.freebsd.org
    starting 12 hours before and running until 12 hours after the event
    for you.

-   June 7, 2011: New set of IPv6-only snapshots uploaded. Now with RFC
    6106 DNS search list and nameserver support in rtsol(8) and
    rtsold(8), also when installing. Read more about the snapshots here
    and find download links and netinstall documentation on the wiki.

-   June 6, 2011: The FreeBSD Foundation and iXsystems announced today
    their commitment to support the efforts of World IPv6 Day to
    accelerate global IPv6 deployment. Read the entire press release and
    find more information on FreeBSD and World IPv6 Day here.

-   June 6, 2011: New set of IPv6-only snapshots uploaded. Read more
    about the snapshots here and find download links here.

-   June 6, 2011: Hiroki Sato commits RFC 6106 "IPv6 Router
    Advertisement Options for DNS Configuration" (RDNSS and DNSSL)
    support.

IPv6 in FreeBSD

FreeBSD is a widely used, open source operating system whose network
stack has been the foundation for decades of research, as well as a
reference implementation of IPv6 (developed by the KAME project).
FreeBSD first shipped IPv6 support in March 2000 as part of FreeBSD
4.0-Release.

IPv6 and the FreeBSD Project

The FreeBSD Project has been an early adopter and active participant in
the IPv6 community. With the help of the community, we have been serving
releases from IPv6-enabled servers since May 2003 and FreeBSD’s website,
mailing lists, and developer infrastructure have been IPv6 enabled since
2007.

FreeBSD is used by critical Internet infrastructure such as root name
servers, routers, firewalls and some of the world’s busiest and most
reliable web sites as well as embedded into many products all in the
need for the best IPv6 support. To read more about some companies using
the FreeBSD operating system in their products, see the FreeBSD
Foundation Testimonials page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 28, 2023 by Danilo G. Baio

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
