[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

Quality Assurance Tasks for the Ports Management Team

There are a number of tasks that the Ports Management Team undertakes to
try to improve the quality of the Ports Collection. These fall into two
main categories: activities during a release cycle and activities
between release cycles.

Activities During a Release Cycle

-   Work with the Release Engineering Team to coordinate the release
    schedule.

-   Work with the RE team to determine which pre-built packages can be
    included on the default install ISOs.

-   Cut over to the new quarterly branch.

Activities Between Release Cycles

-   Manage the Ports Build Cluster machines. These machines continually
    build packages on all possible combinations of OS release and CPU
    architecture (in our terminology, build environments.)

These builds also produce error logs for packages that do not build
correctly (see the above URL). Periodically, the team marks these ports
as BROKEN so that maintainers may be notified. (See below.)

Successfully built packages (at least, the ones that are freely
redistributable) are also copied to the master FTP server and thus
become the default "latest package" for installations that use packages
rather than ports.

-   Notify the FreeBSD community of problems within the Ports Collection
    so that problems do not get overlooked. To do this, there are a
    number of emailed reports. Ones marked public are posted to
    freebsd-ports.

    -   a public list of all ports to be removed due to security
        problems, build failures, or general obsolescence, unless they
        are fixed first.

    -   private email to all maintainers of the affected ports
        (including ports dependent on the above).

    -   private email to all maintainers of ports that are already
        marked BROKEN and/or FORBIDDEN.

    -   private email to maintainers who are not committers, who have
        PRs filed against their ports (to flag PRs that might never have
        been Cc:ed to them).

    -   public email about port commits that break building of INDEX.

    -   public email about port commits that send the revision metadata
        backwards (and thus confuse tools like portupgrade).

    -   private email to an affected port maintainer when a port is
        about to be marked BROKEN, Cc:ed to the last committer to the
        port. (This email is not automated but it should be sent as a
        courtesy.)

-   Remove expired ports. Ports that have been marked BROKEN for some
    time are marked DEPRECATED (with an EXPIRATION_DATE) and then are
    removed if no one has fixed them by that time. The intent of this
    process is to try to ensure that if a user installs a port, there is
    the best possible chance that it can be made to work.

In other cases, ports are marked DEPRECATED when they have been replaced
by a newer version and the older version is no longer maintained by the
authors. The EXPIRATION_DATE should generally be set at least two months
in the future to allow everyone sufficient time to upgrade.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: December 27, 2021 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
