[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

FreeBSD Foundation

Links:
FreeBSD Foundation URL: https://www.freebsdfoundation.org
Technology Roadmap URL:
https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/technology-roadmap/
Donate URL: https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/donate/
Foundation Partnership Program URL:
https://freebsdfoundation.org/our-donors/freebsd-foundation-partnership-program/
FreeBSD Journal URL: https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/journal/
Foundation News and Events URL:
https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/news-and-events/

Contact: Deb Goodkin <deb@FreeBSDFoundation.org>

The FreeBSD Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated
to supporting and promoting the FreeBSD Project and community worldwide.
Donations from individuals and corporations are used to fund and manage
software development projects, conferences, and developer summits. We
also provide travel grants to FreeBSD contributors, purchase and support
hardware to improve and maintain FreeBSD infrastructure, and provide
resources to improve security, quality assurance, and release
engineering efforts. We publish marketing material to promote, educate,
and advocate for the FreeBSD Project, facilitate collaboration between
commercial vendors and FreeBSD developers, and finally, represent the
FreeBSD Project in executing contracts, license agreements, and other
legal arrangements that require a recognized legal entity.

Fundraising Efforts

We finally have our 2022 fundraising numbers in and we raised a total of
$1,231,096! We were short of our goal, which forced us to pull around
$74,000 from our longer term investments.

Besides receiving a lot of donations from you our users and
contributors, we received larger donations from Juniper, Meta, Arm,
Netflix, Beckhoff, Tarsnap, Modirum, Koum Family Foundation, and
Stormshield. I’d like to extend a heartfelt thank you on behalf of the
Foundation to everyone, including individuals and corporations, for your
financial contributions in 2022!

This year our budget is around $2,230,000, which includes increased
spending towards FreeBSD advocacy and software development. More than
half our budget is allocated towards work directly related to improving
FreeBSD and keeping it secure. To fund the 2023 budget, we increased our
fundraising goal and plan on using some of our investment money. When we
received our first million dollar donation, the plan was to use up to
10% of it each year to increase our work to improve FreeBSD, so this has
been part of our funding plan for a few years now.

The 2023 budget is in the process of being approved by the board of
directors and will be published once it is approved.

This quarter we received donations from Juniper, Tarsnap, Microsoft, and
Stormshield. So, we are already off to a great start! But, we definitely
need more to support our planned efforts for 2023.

If you want to help us continue our efforts, please consider making a
donation towards our 2023 fundraising campaign!
https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/donate/

We also have a Partnership Program for larger commercial donors. You can
read about it at
https://freebsdfoundation.org/our-donors/freebsd-foundation-partnership-program/.

OS Improvements

During the first quarter of 2023, 226 src, 39 ports, and 12 doc tree
commits identified the Foundation as a sponsor. Some of this sponsored
work is described in separate report entries:

-   Continuous Integration

-   Enabling Snapshots on Filesystems Using Journaled Soft Updates

-   FreeBSD as a Tier 1 cloud-init Platform

-   FreeBSD Release Engineering Team

-   Improve the kinst DTrace provider

-   OpenStack on FreeBSD

Other Foundation-sponsored work included:

-   OpenSSH fixes and updates to versions 9.2p1 and 9.3p1

-   a vendor import and update of libpcap to version 1.10.3

-   improvements to tmpfs, msdosfs, and makefs

-   the addition of a new kqueue1 syscall

-   man page updates

-   dtrace and bhyve fixes

-   LinuxKPI work

Continuous Integration and Quality Assurance

The Foundation provides a full-time staff member and funds projects to
improve continuous integration, automated testing, and overall quality
assurance efforts for the FreeBSD project. You can read more about CI
work in a dedicated report entry. A current project that is being funded
by the FreeBSD Foundation is one to develop a set of scripts to help src
developers conduct CI tests themselves. One of the main goals is to
offer more visibility at the pre-commit stage. A review for the first
milestone has been submitted.

FreeBSD Advocacy and Education

Much of our effort is dedicated to the FreeBSD Project advocacy. This
may involve highlighting interesting FreeBSD work, producing literature
and video tutorials, attending events, or giving presentations. The goal
of the literature we produce is to teach people FreeBSD basics and help
make their path to adoption or contribution easier. Other than attending
and presenting at events, we encourage and help community members run
their own FreeBSD events, give presentations, or staff FreeBSD tables.

The FreeBSD Foundation sponsors many conferences, events, and summits
around the globe. These events can be BSD-related, open source, or
technology events geared towards underrepresented groups. We support the
FreeBSD-focused events to help provide a venue for sharing knowledge,
working together on projects, and facilitating collaboration between
developers and commercial users. This all helps provide a healthy
ecosystem. We support the non-FreeBSD events to promote and raise
awareness of FreeBSD, to increase the use of FreeBSD in different
applications, and to recruit more contributors to the Project. We are
back to attending events mostly in person and began planning the in
person May 2023 Developer Summit, co-located with BSDCan. In addition to
attending and planning events, we are continually working on new
training initiatives and updating our selection of how-to guides to
facilitate getting more folks to try out FreeBSD.

Check out some of our advocacy and education work:

-   Hosted a stand at FOSDEM 2023, February 4-5, 2023 in Brussels,
    Belgium. Check out the trip report.

-   Hosted a table at State of Open Con 2023, February, 7-8, 2023, in
    London, England. Read more about it.

-   Sponsored, held a workshop and hosted a booth at SCALE 20x, in March
    9-12, 2023, Pasadena, California. Check out the trip report.

-   Sponsored Open Source 101, March 23 2023, in Charlotte, NC.

-   Sponsored and began planning the in-person May 2023 Developer Summit
    taking place May 17-18, 2023 in Ottawa, Ontario

-   Secured our Media Partner sponsorship status and submitted a
    workshop for All Things Open, October 15-17, 2023 in Raleigh, NC.

-   Submitted a Workshop proposal for FOSSY, July 13-16, 2023, in
    Portland, OR.

-   The FreeBSD Project was accepted as a Participating Organization for
    Google Summer of Code.

-   We held GSoC Office Hours to help prospective participants with
    questions.

-   Published March Newsletter

-   Additional Blog Posts

    -   Under the Hood with FreeBSD and Ampere Altra

    -   New Open Position: FreeBSD Userland Software Developer - Note:
        Posting is closed.

    -   BSDCan 2023 Travel Grant Application Now Open - Note:
        Applications are closed

-   FreeBSD in the News:

    -   VMBlog State of Open Con Q&A with Deb Goodkin

We help educate the world about FreeBSD by publishing the professionally
produced FreeBSD Journal. As we mentioned previously, the FreeBSD
Journal is now a free publication. Find out more and access the latest
issues at https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/journal/.

You can find out more about events we attended and upcoming events at
https://www.FreeBSDfoundation.org/news-and-events/.

Legal/FreeBSD IP

The Foundation owns the FreeBSD trademarks, and it is our responsibility
to protect them. We also provide legal support for the core team to
investigate questions that arise.

Go to https://www.freebsdfoundation.org to find more about how we
support FreeBSD and how we can help you!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: April 16, 2023 by Joseph Mingrone

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
