[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

FreeBSD への寄付

 

-   ホーム

-   FreeBSD とは
    -   FreeBSD が初めてという方へ
    -   特徴
    -   プロモーション活動
    -   マーケティング活動
    -   プライバシーポリシー
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   FreeBSD の入手
    -   リリース情報
    -   リリースエンジニアリング

-   ドキュメント
    -   FAQ
    -   ハンドブック
    -   port 作成者のためのハンドブック
    -   開発者のためのハンドブック
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   マニュアルページ
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   新しい貢献者のためのドキュメンテーションプロジェクト入門
    -   すべての Books と Articles

-   コミュニティ
    -   メーリングリスト
    -   フォーラム
    -   ユーザグループ
    -   イベント
    -   FreeBSD ジャーナル
    -   Q&A (外部)

-   開発
    -   プロジェクトアイディア
    -   Git リポジトリ
    -   Subversion リポジトリ
    -   GitHub ミラー
    -   コードレビュー (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   継続的インテグレーションサービス

-   サポート
    -   ベンダ
    -   セキュリティ情報
    -   障害報告
    -   障害報告の提出
    -   ウェブ上の情報

-   財団
    -   寄付
    -   ハードウェアの寄贈

-   サポート
-   ベンダ
    -   ソフトウェア
    -   ハードウェア
    -   コンサルティング
    -   インターネットサービスプロバイダ
    -   その他
-   セキュリティ情報
    -   セキュリティ勧告
    -   Errata 情報
    -   サポートされているリリース
    -   サポートが終了したリリース
    -   FreeBSD セキュリティ勧告の読み方
    -   セキュリティオフィサとチームの憲章
-   バグ報告
    -   障害報告 (PR) の提出
-   ウェブ上の情報

The power, flexibility, and reliability of FreeBSD attract a wide
variety of users and vendors. Here you will find vendors offering
commercial products and/or services for FreeBSD.

For your convenience, we have divided our growing commercial listing
into several sections. If your company supports a FreeBSD related
product, service, consulting, or support that should be added to this
page, please fill out a problem report in category
Documentation→Website. Submissions should contain a medium-sized
paragraph in length, describing your company. Please note that the
inclusion of vendors in our list does not signify our endorsement of
their products or services by the FreeBSD Project.

Consulting Services

A FreeBSD Brasil
    FreeBSD Brasil. Established in 2002, we support FreeBSD in LAC
    (Latin America and Caribbean). A FreeBSD-centric and FreeBSD-only
    company, perhaps the only company worldwide focused exclusively in
    FreeBSD technology. We offer specialized consulting, support (with
    SLA), development and training, as well as ProApps, the FreeBSD
    Professional Appliance empowering hundred of companies’
    mission-critical infrastructure, security and advanced routing. We
    leverage FreeBSD power to add military-grade cyber defense to banks,
    government, financial, space agencies and top enterprises. We are
    the Diversity of Defense, the silent warhorse. In the end of the
    battle day, FreeBSD makes the difference. Defense in depth
    specialists. Diversity of defense specialists. Compliance, best
    practices, pen test, threat intelligence. Advanced routing, netmap
    based firewalling and IDS/IPS, web application firewall,
    multi-factor authentication, identity management, facility threat
    absorption, SOA auditing, response planning, offensive defense, red
    team, penetration testing. It’s more than security; its cyber
    defense.

A-Team Systems
    A-Team Systems has over 15 years of experience helping clients
    leverage the power of in combination with other open source software
    such as PHP, MySQL and Apache in a secure, customized and cohesive
    way. We have been with since version 1.0! We can help you with your
    existing deployment or future plans: From encrypted backups to web
    and mail servers. Visit our website for more information.

Acadix, LLC
    Acadix, LLC offers a full range of services for FreeBSD and other
    platforms, including system integration, file servers, WEB servers,
    and programming/porting. Acadix provides on-site services to
    businesses, schools, and charitable organizations in the Milwaukee
    metro area. Programming services are available to all locations in
    the U.S. For more information, please visit our website.

AMG Labs
    We are a software development and server management company
    operating in the market since 2014. We work with the development of
    customized web systems and the deployment and management of servers
    based on open source technologies such as CentOS, Debian, FreeBSD,
    OpenBSD and Ubuntu Server.

AnonBSD Inc.
    We provide IT environment consulting. Support in FreeBSD, OpenBSD,
    Linux (Debian, RedHat, SUSE, Gentoo, Slackware) and OpenSolaris.
    High availability, virtualization, monitoring, security, deployment,
    network infrastructure. We service in São Paulo/SP and Campinas/SP
    in Brazil. Contact us via e-mail (ricardo.ichizo@gmail.com) or by
    phone at +55 (19) 8202-1567.

Audacix
    At Audacix we help our customers maximise profits by shipping
    bug-free and secure software. Talk to us if you need help with your
    architecture, digital transformation, DevOps practice and
    cybersecurity. Call us on +61 3 7001 1430 or +44 20 3411 4974 to
    skyrocket your software delivery to the next level.

B.M.K. Industries
    B.M.K. Industries is located in Melbourne Australia and specializes
    in setting up low cost routers and servers (Web, E-Mail, FTP, DNS
    and Secure Web Servers ) all using FreeBSD. Setting up Permanent
    Modem & ISDN Internet Connections is also a specialty. Please visit
    our web page.

bjrn hahnefeld IT
    We are a company for Software-Engineering and a Hosting- and
    Server-Solutions provider (Web-, Application-, Database-servers) for
    Germany, Austria and Switzerland. We are experienced in the
    installation and administration of BSD and Linux systems. Our
    software experience is with PHP, Perl and SQL and we speak English
    and German. We are located in Regensburg, Germany. Please email
    info@hahnefeld.de for more information.

Black Point Arts Internet Solutions GmbH
    Black Point Arts Internet Solutions GmbH is located in Germany
    (Frankfurt/Main). We have experiences with FreeBSD, Linux and
    Windows Servers. Our business activities include hosting/homing,
    programming and webdesign. We develop solutions for your intra-,
    extra- and internet needs. For more information you can visit our
    website or write an email to service@bpanet.de.

BSD Professionals In Europe (BSDPIE)
    We are BSD based co-operating consultants offering Consultancy,
    Support, Development, Installation and Internet Services located in
    Munich, Germany.

Clone Consulting
    Clone provides consultancy services for software development, system
    architecture and FreeBSD infrastructure support. For additional
    information please visit the Clone website.

CTS Consulting and Trade Service
    CTS Consulting & Trade Service is a full service Consultant and
    Supplier for pre-installed FreeBSD Servers. We ship Firewalls,
    Internet Gateways, Mail Systems with virus protection, realtime http
    scanner, File and Print Servers. Network planning and implementation
    of WANS with IPSEC tunneling, Samba and Hylafax installations.
    Founded in 1985 with Unix and Mainframe experience since 1978. We
    are based in Salzburg and Vienna, Austria and have customer
    references throughout Europe and Eastern Europe ranging from 5 to
    60000 Users. We are also shipping pre-installed Asterisk Telephone
    Systems and have best the references with it.

Cybersource Pty. Ltd
    Cybersource is Australia's leading IT Professional Services Company
    in the areas of Unix/FreeBSD/Linux, TCP/IP Datanetworking and Open
    Platform application development using these technologies. With
    around 40 staff, are based in Melbourne and have been successfully
    providing IT Professional Services for 10 years.

Envescent, LLC
    Envescent is a leading provider of technology products and services
    focused on FreeBSD. We offer consulting, pre-installed workstations
    and servers, compatible hardware, outsourced system and network
    administration and implementation, security auditing, technical
    support and much more.

EscapeBox
    More than 20 years of IT experience on demand! The EscapeBox Germany
    GmbH, founded in 2002, is a small but agile company that offers IT
    consulting services. We can support our clients both from remote and
    on location, as desired. So, if you are looking for capable
    freelancers for your projects, please do not hesitate to contact us
    today!

Ethon Technologies GmbH
    Ethon Technologies GmbH -- located in Munich, Germany -- has a
    strong focus on BSD driven solutions. We offer professional
    consulting services as well as BSD based telecommunication systems,
    ranging from basic PBX to telco solutions up to 10.000.000 users.
    Feel free to contact us at info@ethon.de or drop us a voicemail:
    +49.89.255456.0

FirmbIT
    FirmbIT is a high quality server management and security company
    providing friendly reliable support specializing in high security
    installations and scalable solutions with support for FreeBSD,
    OpenBSD, NetBSD, Redhat, Fedora, CentOS, Debian, Slackware, Gentoo,
    SuSe, Mandrake and Sun Solaris servers.

Fortuitous Technologies
    Fortuitous Technologies provides Performance Tuning, Capacity
    Planning, System Design, Network Design and security services for
    FreeBSD, Linux, and Unix systems worldwide. We cover Cloud, Grid,
    and Multi-tiered systems of all types. Contact us at
    http://Fortuitous.com for further information.

Greg Lehey
    Greg Lehey has over 20 years industry experience in all system
    programming and systems administration disciplines, including device
    drivers, kernel debugging, compilers, libraries, performance
    analysis, and site planning. He is the author of The Vinum Volume
    Manager, a virtual disk driver which includes software RAID, and
    also the books Porting UNIX Software and The Complete FreeBSD.
    Contact him via Email, or visit his web site.

Hamburgnet
    Hamburgnet provides you with experience in FreeBSD and OpenBSD based
    projects. From low-end webservers to high-end firewall and database
    clusters. Storage, server, Unix, cluster & consulting. You can visit
    our website, mail us, phone us at +49 (40) 73672322 or contact us
    via fax at +49 (40) 73672321.

HermeTek Network Solutions
    HermeTek Network Solutions is a comprehensive network solutions
    provider with a strong focus on FreeBSD. HermeTek also offers
    support for other BSD and Linux operating systems, as well as fully
    managed hosting packages. Please visit our web site for more
    information.

Interfuture Systems Ltd
    Interfuture is an UK company offering a full range of UNIX
    consultancy, from desktop installation and support through to
    mission-critical server support and troubleshooting. One of our
    specialist areas and preferred operating systems is FreeBSD. Visit
    our website for more information or call +44 203 002 2111.

IT-schulungen.com
    Located in Germany, IT-Schulungen.com is a portal for IT-Trainings
    (both individual workshops and public seminars) and offers training
    and consulting for different Open Source systems including FreeBSD.
    For further information please call 01805 120 222 (from within
    Germany) or visit our website.

ITS Pro
    ITS Pro is on the market since 2013. We are based in Poland. We
    focus on consultancy and advisory services. We deliver customized
    systems and applications, monitoring IT systems, messaging systems
    for our customers from various sectors and countries. We work in the
    following applications based on the FreeBSD platform: messaging
    systems - Postfix, monitoring systems – Nagios, secure publishing
    Internet access to back office applications and services (reverse
    proxy) like Exchange and SharePoint. Feel free to contact us to
    learn how you can benefit from our knowledge, experience and passion
    in IT technology.

iXsystems, Inc.
    Based in the heart of Silicon Valley in San Jose, California,
    iXsystems offers FreeBSD technical support and custom development
    with a devoted Professional Services and Call Center based in the US
    to assist with issues. Getting FreeBSD up and running is fast and
    easy, but having expert help on-hand to solve your problems can take
    your solution to new heights. From optimizing your small office
    set-up to guidance on very large deployments, our team can ensure
    you get the most from FreeBSD.

Jens Schweikhardt
    Jens Schweikhardt, located near Stuttgart/Germany, is a FreeBSD
    committer with 20 years of Unix experience who won several national
    and international programming contests. If you have a problem that
    can be solved using the Unix toolbox (preferably C, perl, shell) he
    is the one to make it happen. With his background in Unix
    Standardization he will make sure your investment runs portably and
    efficiently on all the Unices you care for. Contact him via
    schweikh@FreeBSD.org.

Julian Stacey
    Net services & systems engineering, UNIX since 1978, Maintains a
    FreeBSD Commercial Consultants Index (sorted geographically & by
    full & part timers). Be sure to visit his page!

Klara Inc.
    FreeBSD Professional Services, Development and support for FreeBSD
    to customers around the globe.

Linux Stans
    A team of freelancers offering FreeBSD services. Including, but not
    limited to installing, setting up, and configuring FreeBSD, as well
    as 24/7 maintenance, monitoring, and updates

Manchester PC
    Manchester PC is located in Manchester, United Kingdom, and we
    specialise in computer support services such as computer repair,
    setting up servers, installing and troubleshooting networking. We
    love open-source software, especially FreeBSD, PHP, MySQL, pfSense,
    FreeNAS, and Apache.

myserver.bg
    myserver.bg offers professional services to companies implementing
    open source solutions. We are BSD and Linux certified system
    administrators and network engineers. Day to day system
    administration includes databases, web services, high availability
    systems, virtualization, monitoring, telephony, and spam fighting.
    That is just part of the things that we do since 2001. For all these
    years we have gained exceptional experience in system
    administration, servers maintenance and network management. For more
    information please visit our web site.

Nesbitt & Associates
    Nesbitt & Associates is based in Vancouver, Canada, but have worked
    with clients all over the world. We specialize in open source
    technologies, in particular, FreeBSD, Perl, Apache, mod_perl and
    MySQL. For more information, please visit our web site.

NetFence
    NetFence deploys and maintains Internet/intranet servers based on
    FreeBSD and other open source software (including Apache web server,
    Squid, Samba, Cyrus IMAP, PostgreSQL, OpenVPN and others). Network
    and client-side hardware/software/support is also offered, as well
    as custom programming and security coverage. It is located in
    Bologna, Italy and can be reached at freebsd@netfence.it.

NSW IT Support
    NSW IT Support provides FreeBSD, OpenBSD and Linux installations
    services for secure antispam web servers that will make any
    customers happy. Visit our website for more information.

NUVYM-CLOUD
    NUVYM is the first and unique company that customizes FreeBSD at
    Amazon Web Services. Customer obsession is our focus. We use the
    best methodologies to plan, implement and manage our clients
    environments accordingly with their needs.

Omar Siddique
    Omar Siddique is a Washington, D.C. based consultant with broad
    experience in FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris. His specialties include
    internet services, systems integration, system administration, and
    networking. Contact him via omar@heedme.com.

Omniscient Technologies
    Omniscient Technologies is a Washington D.C. based consulting group
    with a broad array of experience in *BSD, Solaris, Linux and many
    other varieties of UNIX specializing in highly scalable systems,
    systems integration and network security. Custom application design
    also available. Please visit our website for more information.

os-cillation
    os-cillation, located in Siegen/NRW, Germany. We offer a broad range
    in BSD-based software-development (C/C++/Java/HTML/PHP/Perl/SQL).
    Installation and support of FreeBSD based mail, web, firewall,
    database, news, dns and ftp servers. FreeBSD and Windows desktop
    integration. Also experienced with NetBSD, Solaris and Linux.

Ouellet Consulting Inc.
    OCI specialize in systems/networks design, implementation and
    security solutions, including solutions meeting HIPPA requirements.
    We spec out, configure and support firewalls, proxy-arrays, servers,
    switches, mail systems, web servers, databases, etc. We are familiar
    with and support most Windows and Unix/Linux systems including
    FreeBSD. We offer remote administration services worldwide, on all
    supported platforms. We plan and assist with Active Directory
    migrations. For more information please contact us via e-mail or
    call us +1-850-510-6162. Please see our website for complete details
    on what we offer.

Pate Consulting, Inc.
    We specialize in providing solid open source solutions for
    businesses using OpenBSD, FreeBSD, and Linux. 6 years in business.
    12 years of experience - MCSE, CCNA, RHCE certifications - Also
    MySQL, PostgreSQL. VPNs, firewalls, wireless, DNS, squidGuard,
    mail - even training with FreeBSD. You can contact us via e-mail,
    call us at 713.333.5468 or send us a fax at 713.333.5494.

Paxym
    Paxym's Highly Skilled team provides software development and
    consulting services in the areas of Kernels, Bootloaders for new
    CPUs & Boards, Network Security Applications, Storage Appliances and
    Performance tuning of embedded SW and Network/Storage/Security
    Applications. Paxym provides FreeBSD SMP for OCTEON (Multicore
    Mips64 CPU from Cavium Networks). The port is extensively tested
    with OpenPosix, Apache WebBench, UnixBench, MySQL Sysbench, OHCP,
    Netperf, FreeNAS for stability and functional completeness. Stable
    port based on FreeBSD 7.0 is targeted for Network, Security and
    Storage Applications. Multiple cores, from 1-16 can be used in SMP
    mode. Supports Dynamic & Static Linking models, o32, n64 & n32 ABI.
    Root filesystem can be embedded in kernel memory or put on
    Compact-Flash/NFS. libthr for POSIX pthreads. Paxym's team has had
    extensive experience with Multi-core Mips (Octeon), PPC and x86
    CPUs. Working on these from Rom-Monitors, boot-loaders, Operating
    Systems, Network Stacks, Storage protocols, Device Drivers, Security
    Algorithms and Embedded Applications. Paxym has been working closely
    on FreeBSD, Linux and proprietary OS environments. For more
    information, visit http://www.paxym.com/

Peter Dufault
    Peter Dufault, of HD Associates. Peter has over 15 years experience
    in medical device control, high performance simulation systems,
    digital closed-loop feedback systems, realtime UNIX-like systems,
    and UNIX device drivers. For more information, please send email to
    dufault@hda.com

Phil Budne
    Phil Budne is a Boston area consultant who has worked professionally
    with BSD and other Unix systems since 1985. Services include
    development and porting of kernel extensions, device drivers,
    network protocol implementation, and applications, as well as
    network and system administration. For more information contact
    phil+fbsd@ultimate.com.

Psychsoft Consulting
    Psychsoft Consulting is an Industry recognized leading technology
    consulting firm based in Quincy, Massachusetts founded in 1987 with
    a highly educated, trained and experienced staff to help in all your
    IT needs. Psychsoft, Inc. personnel hold advanced degrees in various
    fields and have years of experience in IT implementation,
    troubleshooting, design and configuration. Areas of expertise
    include: Linux, Microsoft Windows, UNIX (including FreeBSD), TCP/IP,
    LAN, WAN, VPN, Network security, WIFI security, WIFI design,
    Database design, SQL, Web site design, Server design, System
    integration, Network printing and DSL/Broadband/T1 Internet access.

Questwork Consulting Limited
    Questwork Consulting Limited is based in Hong Kong. We provide
    consulting, web application development, hosting & maintenance
    services on FreeBSD to our clients for more than 5 years. For more
    information, please contact us by email at freebsd@questwork.com or
    visit our website.

Raditex Control AB
    Raditex Control AB are a firm of consultants and also do education
    in Unix. We have long experience with all kinds of Unix systems not
    only FreeBSD or Linux. For more information phone us at +46 19
    450105 or give us an email at gorhas@raditex.nu or visit our web
    site.

RxTx
    RxTx offers scientific software development, maintenance,
    integration, and deployment services. Specific expertise is the
    cross-platform porting of scientific applications and libraries,
    including from and to FreeBSD. Contact us via our website
    www.rxtx.tech or by email info@rxtx.tech.

Secnetix GmbH and Co KG
    Secnetix GmbH & Co KG -- located in Munich, Germany -- has a strong
    focus on BSD systems and offers professional consulting services,
    ranging from basic administration, programming and security-related
    tasks to sophisticated projects involving design, implementation and
    maintenance of complex network setups. For more information, please
    visit our web site or send a message to info@secnetix.de.

Sense of Security Pty Ltd
    Sense of Security is an Australian provider of Free BSD and Unix
    consulting services. We have a strong focus on building secure
    networks and systems, including firewalls, VPNs, web servers, etc.
    We are also experts at conducting security review, audit,
    penetration testing, and assessment services.

Sheridan Computers Limited
    We offer IT consulting, systems integration, corporate information
    systems and security solutions based on BSD software. For more
    information, send us an email or visit our website. We operate in
    the United Kingdom.

SMLAN Software & Management Training
    SMLan Software & Management Training is a learning center for
    IT-Trainings. Seminars for Open Source Systems like FreeBSD are
    offered to companies and individuals. Contact: 0049 30 4492545.

Support.od.ua
    Support.od.ua is located in Odessa, Ukraine. We offer professional
    FreeBSD and Linux installation, consulting and server solutions for
    customers in Ukraine, Russian Federation and Kazakhstan. For more
    information and contact details please visit our website.

SysCare s. r. o.
    SysCare s. r. o. is a company based in Slovakia with the aim to
    provide highly professional solutions, including consultancy and
    outsourcing services for reasonable amount of money. Our focus is on
    high-availability and high-performance solutions for web, database,
    DNS and email products built on. SysCare s. r. o. has been founded
    by Daniel Gerzo, who is being part of the official development team.
    For inquiries please send us an email to office@syscare.sk, or visit
    our web site for more information.

Tecno21 - Openservices
    We provide setup and support for FreeBSD, OpenBSD and Linux. We have
    10+ years experience with open source software on corporate and SMB
    customers. We offer custom applications (C/C++/Java/C#), network
    infrastructure design, security, audit and smartcard solutions.
    Contact us via e-mail or by phone at +55 (11) 3825-2472.

TecVD
    TecVD is located in Barcelona, Spain. We are a company focused in
    system security and open source implementations (GNU/Linux, FreeBSD
    and OpenBSD) in heterogeneous infrastructure. We also have security
    appliances, Tseg series, and network services appliances like Tcor
    series. We can provide you with a complete enterprise solution
    tailored to your needs. See our website or email us at
    tecvd@tecvd.com for further information.

The FreeBSD Mall
    The FreeBSD Mall offers several different levels of support
    contracts for FreeBSD. Support is available on a per-incident basis,
    or as a convenient, extensible annual contract. Our highly trained
    technical support staff will handle your requests in a professional
    and efficient manner and will provide detailed responses to your
    needs by phone, fax, or email. The FreeBSD Mall staff has over 8
    years of experience supporting FreeBSD. For more information, please
    see our support page.

The JMBG Network
    We believe in quality, reliable and innovative solutions so
    naturally we love FreeBSD. We are a Canadian electronic solutions
    provider servicing mainly South-Western Ontario. We also provide
    some solutions to clients in Canada and the United States. We offer
    a wide range of electronic solutions including consulting services
    and we most definitely support and recommend FreeBSD.

TundraWare Inc.
    TundraWare Inc. provides FreeBSD related consultancy in all
    contexts, from Embedded to large Transaction Processing systems. We
    have extensive International experience and can provide services in
    network design, systems architecture, development, deployment and
    operations. Contact us via telephone on 847/827-1706, via email to
    info@tundraware.com or write to us at TundraWare Inc., 817 Fairmont
    Court, Des Plaines, IL 60018, USA.

Ulyanovsk.BSD (ULBSD)
    The Ulyanovsk.BSD (ULBSD) is a Russian company located in Ulyanovsk.
    We provide technical support and consulting to users of ULBSD
    operating system that is based on. We provide free and paid versions
    of our operating system. We also answer many questions of users for
    free and help them work in the and ULBSD. For more information send
    an email to info@ulbsd.ru.

UnixPorting
    UnixPorting.com specializes in the porting of existing software to
    new operating systems or hardware. In addition to porting, we
    specialize in C and Perl programming, Unix system administration and
    security, and open source technologies (FreeBSD, Perl, Apache,
    mod_perl, MySQL, etc.). For more information, please visit our web
    site.

Worria Affordable Web Hosting
    Worria Affordable Web Hosting is a privately owned company in Hong
    Kong. We offer FreeBSD web hosting related consulting services, such
    as server administration and website management. For more details,
    please email our sales team.

ZYTRAX, Inc
    Zytrax, Inc. is based in Montreal, Canada and provides consulting,
    development, implementation, hosting and maintenance services
    specialising in the BSD platforms. Our skill base includes Apache,
    PHP, Ruby, DNS, Mail, LDAP, Samba, PostgeSQL/MySQL and embedded
    systems. Please email us at consulting@zytrax.com. We can be reached
    via telephone at +1.514.285.9088.

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)

最終更新日: 2023年2月21日 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

法律上の注意事項 | © 1995-2023 FreeBSD プロジェクト All rights reserved.
The mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and
is used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
