[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   BSD Now
-   Discord
-   Events
-   Forums
-   IRC
-   Mailing Lists
-   Reddit
-   Twitter
-   User Groups
-   YouTube

User Groups

FreeBSD’s widespread popularity has spawned a number of user groups
around the world.

If you know of a FreeBSD user group not listed here, please fill out a
problem report in category Documentation→Website with the following
information:

1.  A URL for the user group’s website.

2.  An email contact address of a human in charge, for use by our
    visitors and website administrators.

3.  A short (one paragraph) description of the user group.

Submissions should be in HTML. In keeping with the spirit of FreeBSD, we
prefer user groups that are active and which conduct their business in
public. If there is no local group, http://bsd.meetup.com/ can be used
to locate interested individuals near by. Consider forming your own user
group!

Regions:

-   Europe ( 30 user groups)
-   North America ( 24 user groups)
-   Asia ( 11 user groups)
-   South America ( 3 user groups)
-   Oceania ( 3 user groups)
-   Global ( 1 user groups)

[Map with the usergroups]

Europe

AlbaBUG

    The Albanian BSD Users Group is a group that represents and supports
    *BSD in Albanian language. More information is available at
    http://www.AlbaBSD.org. Located in Prishtina, Kosova.

Augusta

    The BSD User Group of the Augsburger Computer Forum e.V. meets every
    second Saturday at 17.00. Please visit our web site for more
    information on dates and our address. We have all kinds of BSD, but
    mainly FreeBSD and Mac OS X. Located in Germany, Augsburg.

Berkeley in Munich (BIM)

    The Berkeley in Munich (BIM) caters for users of BSD based systems
    in Oberbayern. Located in Germany, Munich.

Bluefrogs e.V.

    Unix and Linux User Group in Bergisch Gladbach (near Cologne),
    German. Meetings are held twice a month. We are working with all
    Open Source Unix derivates: FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Linux and
    others. We give workshops, lectures, talks and install parties. For
    more information please email us at: info@bluefrogs.de

BSD User Group Düsseldorf/NRW (BSD.NRW)

    BSD.NRW is located in Düsseldorf, NRW, Germany. We are open for all
    people in the Rhein-Ruhr area that are interested in the BSD family.
    We have bi-monthly meetings (always on the second Tuesday of these
    months). Upcoming dates and additional information can be found on
    the BSD.NRW website.

BSD User Group Hamburg (BSDHH)

    The BSD User Group Hamburg (BSDHH) meets on the first Wednesday of
    the month at 7.00pm in the restaurant Léon (Koppel 1, 20099
    Hamburg). Most members are FreeBSD users, although users of all BSD
    flavors are welcome. Located in Germany, Hamburg.

BSD User Group Latvia

    To learn more about the BSD User Group Latvia, please visit our site
    and our forums. Located in Latvia.

BSD User Group Slovenia

    BSD User Group Slovenia connects BSD system users in Slovenia. Group
    members also gather on the ##bsd.si IRC channel on Libera Chat.
    Located in Ljubljana, Slovenia.

BSD Users Sweden (BUS)

    The BSD Users Sweden (BUS) maintains a mailing list. To join send an
    email to majordomo@stacken.kth.se with subscribe bus in the body.
    Located in Sweden.

BSD-DK

    The Danish BSD User Group. Promotion and support of the BSD derived
    Operating Systems in Denmark. Mailing lists, lecture and workshops.
    Send mail subscription requests to bsd-dk-request@bsd-dk.dk. Located
    in Denmark.

BSE München

    BSE (BSD Social Event) is located in München (Munich), Germany. Feel
    free to visit our regular meetings (every four weeks) or join the
    mailing list. For more information visit the BSE web site.

Dublin BSD User Group

    The Dublin BSD User Group is a collective of individuals who are
    interested in the application of BSDs in production scenarios. We
    are interested in how the BSDs can help both sysadmins and
    application developers deploy and manage robust solutions as well as
    looking at some of the unique features of the BSDs. For more
    information please visit our website.

FreeBSD UK Users group (FreeBSD UKUG)

    The FreeBSD UKUG (FreeBSD UK User's Group) exists for the benefit of
    FreeBSD users in the United Kingdom. Please follow the link for more
    information. Located in the United Kingdom.

FUG-FR

    The FreeBSD User Group France (FUG-FR) is an group of FreeBSD
    enthusiasts in France currently involved translating marketing
    papers etc. They are also active in helping out FOSDEM (held in
    Brussels). For more information please visit our web page
    http://www.fug-fr.org or contact Rodrigo Osorio.

Gruppo Utenti FreeBSD Italia (GUFI)

    The Gruppo Utenti FreeBSD Italia (GUFI) is a "italian powered"
    FreeBSD User Group. It is intended to help Italian FreeBSD users to
    find support and articles on/about FreeBSD in the italian language.
    Please follow this link to know more about us. Located in Italia.

HappaBSD Regensburg

    HappaBSD is a regulars' table taking place every month in
    Regensburg, Bavaria, Germany. For more information see the HappaBSD
    website.

Lissyara.su

    We are a russian FreeBSD community. On our site we offer several
    articles for setting up FreeBSD and various other applications. In
    addtition to the articles we also provide a user forum where
    experienced users of FreeBSD are pleased to be able to help other
    users.

Manchester BSD Users Group

    The Manchester BSD Users Group meets reasonably often in the Lass
    O'Gowrie, on Charles Street, Manchester. Contact Sam Smith for more
    information. Located in The United Kingdom, Manchester.

Polish BSD User Group

    Our group was created to promote systems from the BSD family in
    Poland. We organize meetings that bring together lovers of Unix
    systems. Located in Warsaw.

Prague BSD Group

    A small BSD user group from Brmlab Prague/Czech Republic
    Hackerspace. We are a group of hobbyists, professionals, and
    enthusiasts.

Russian FreeBSD User Group (RFUG)

    The Russian FreeBSD User Group (RFUG) is a Russian language oriented
    user group for the Russian and ex-USSR users. Located in Russia.

SBUG

    SBUG is a *BSD user group based in Rzeszow and targeting the
    Podkarpackie Voivodeship.

The BSD in Belfast Group

    Meet the BSD Belfast Group the third Friday of the month. We are a
    group of academic and industrial BSD users and admirers.

The Hungarian BSD Group

    The Hungarian BSD Group is a group of NetBSD, FreeBSD, and OpenBSD
    users located in Hungary. Their meetings occur on the second Friday
    of the month. The website of the group is http://www.bsd.hu/.

The Norwegian BSD User Group (NOBUG)

    The Norwegian BSD User Group (NOBUG) is a User Group for BSD users
    and enthusiasts in Norway. Meetings are currently held in Oslo and
    Bergen. Visit our website for more information. There is also a Unix
    User Group (NUUG) with more regular meetings, sometimes even with a
    BSD subject. Located in Norway.

The Portuguese *BSD Users Group

    The Portuguese *BSD Users Group is a User Group for Portuguese users
    of BSD operating systems. Contact Rui Pereira ptbsd@yahoo.com for
    more information. Located in Portugal, Amadora.

Ulmer BSD User Stammtisch

    The U-BUS meets every last Thursday of the month. For more
    information about meetings and related issues, please check the web
    page (u-bus). Located in Germany, Ulm.

Ulyanovsk FreeBSD Users Group

    The Ulyanovsk FreeBSD Users Group (ULBSD) is for Russian users of
    ULBSD operating system that is based on FreeBSD. We provide free and
    paid versions of our operating system. We also answer many questions
    of users for free and help them work in the FreeBSD and ULBSD. For
    more information send an email to info@ulbsd.ru or visit the website
    at http://www.ulbsd.ru/. Located in Ulyanovsk, Russia.

Unix Users Group Rhein-Neckar e.V. (UUGRN e.V.)

    The Unix Users Group Rhein-Neckar e.V. (UUGRN e.V.) provides a
    regional forum for users of all Unix flavors, with a stress on Linux
    and BSD. Meetings (UnixUserStammtisch) are held on the third Monday
    of each month. The Hands-on FIXME meeting happens every first Friday
    of each month. Located in Germany, Rhine-Neckar-Region , Heidelberg.
    All events get announced on Twitter @uugrn.

Wiener BSD Stammtisch

    The Vienna BSD-Stammtisch is an English and German speaking BSD user
    group located in Austria's capital. We meet once a month to have a
    show and tell session, discuss and have a beer or two. The idea is
    to improve our skills and meet other BSD enthusiasts. Feel free to
    join!

North America

Baltimore Area BSD Operating System User Group (CharmBUG)

    CharmBUG is a Baltimore Area BSD Operating System User Group, where
    the focus is on FreeBSD, OpenBSD, NetBSD and DragonFly BSD,
    including system administration and security across all UNIX like
    operating systems. Please contact shirkdog@gmail.com for details.

BSD User Group Oak Ridge (BUGOR)

    BUGOR is an open and free network of BSD users in the Oak Ridge TN
    area. Ideally, professional sysadmins, programmers and grizzled old
    hackers will meet each week to explore and debate the intricacies of
    the Unix design philosophy and the art of Unix programming while
    mentoring neophyte users and rehabilitating WIMP users.

Capital Area BSD Users Group

    We meet on the last Tuesday of the month. Join our mailing list or
    visit our web site here. We meet in Maryland, but welcome anyone
    from MD, DC or VA.

Chicago Area BSD Users Group

    ChiBUG is a new BSD user group in the Chicago area. We are
    interested in meeting with other individuals who use or are
    interested in any of the BSD variants. For more info or to join our
    mailing list, please visit http://chibug.org

GTABUG

    The GTABUG User Group welcomes all BSD users. Monthly meetings give
    attendees a chance to share ideas, discussion and information.
    Installations and other events help preach the good news of BSD to
    the community. Come drop by for a meeting! Located in Greater
    Toronto Area, Ontario.

Kansas City Area *BSD User.s Group

    We are a beginning BSD User Group with currently two members. If you
    would like to join, please visit our web site here. Our goals are to
    have fun, help others to learn about and using *BSD and evangelize
    the BSD operating systems.

KnoxBUG

    The Knoxville, Tennessee BSD User Group (KnoxBUG) meets once a
    month. For more information, please visit http://knoxbug.org and/or
    subscribe to our mailing list.

New York City *BSD User Group (NYCBUG)

    The New York City *BSD User Group (NYCBUG) meets the first Wednesday
    of the month. Mailing lists are available at
    http://lists.nycbug.org. Located in New York, NY.

NMLUG

    The NMLUG in Alburquerque meets once a month and supports both BSD
    and Linux users. To join the mailing list, send a message to
    majordomo@swcp.com with subscribe nmlug in the body. Located in New
    Mexico.

Ottawa-Carleton Unix Users Group

    We are a small group of hobbyists, users, authors, sysadmins, and
    hackers that meet monthly to discuss the latest topics in a very
    informal setting. Check our mailing list for the latest information.
    Located in Ottawa, Ontario.

Portland (Oregon) FreeBSD Users Group

    The Portland (Oregon) FreeBSD Users Group meets on the third
    Thursday of each month. Mail The Portland FreeBSD Users Group.
    Located in Portland, OR.

Reno Linux Users Group (RLUG)

    The Reno Linux Users Group (RLUG) meets monthly in Reno, Nevada and
    discusses the use of BSD and Linux. Visit our website for more
    information, where you may also join our mailing list. Located in
    Reno, NV.

San Diego BSD Users Group

    The San Diego BSD Users Group for users of FreeBSD, OpenBSD and
    NetBSD. The meeting is first Thursday of every month at Boll Weevil
    off Clairemont Mesa Blvd., near the intersection with Ruffin Road.
    More information can be found here. Located in San Diego, CA.

Seattle BSD Users Group (SeaBUG)

    The Seattle BSD Users Group (SeaBUG) meets occasionally. View our
    web site for more details and for information on how to join our
    mailing list. Located in Seattle, WA.

The Berkeley Unix User Group

    The Berkeley Unix User Group is a general Unix Users Group for
    anyone in the San Fransico Bay Area. We meet on a weekly basis in
    downtown Berkeley. Visit the web site or send a message to
    buug-request@weak.org with subscribe in the body. Located in
    Berkeley, CA.

The Capitals District *BSD Users Group

    The Capitals District *BSD Users Group draws it's membership from
    New York's capital district and the surrounding communities. CDBUG
    was founded in December of 2004 and has a small but growing
    membership. We currently meet on the last Sunday of every month in
    the Albany area. Our mailing list is graciously being hosted by
    NYCBUG at: http://lists.nycbug.org/mailman/listinfo/cdbug-talk.
    Located in Albany, NY.

The Colorado BSD Users Group (CoBUG)

    Created in 2014, CoBUG is a completely open BSD community,
    established with the intention of spreading love for the BSDs.
    Located in Colorado.

The Orlando BSD Users Group

    A small BSD user group from the greater Orlando area in central
    Florida. We are a group of computer hobbyists, I/T professionals,
    and Makerspace enthusiasts.

The Sacramento BSD and Linux Users Group (SacBLUG)

    The Sacramento BSD and Linux Users Group (SacBLUG) is a
    collaborative effort amongst *BSD/Linux professionals in the
    Sacramento area, with a focus on enterprise and server environments.
    Our aim is to share our experiences in managing and maintaining
    systems while also providing a social network for members. Check out
    our website for more information.

The Southern Utah Unix Users Group (SU3G)

    The Southern Utah Unix Users Group (SU ³ G, SU^3G, SU3G, or SUUUG)
    is for users of any version of Unix or Unix-like operating system,
    commercial or open source. So, whether you use FreeBSD, Linux, Mac
    OS X, BSD/OS, Solaris, OpenBSD, or any other Unix or Unix-like OS,
    and if you live, work, or associate with someone who lives or works
    in southwestern Utah, then consider joining the SU ³ G. For more
    information send an email to kendall@su3g.org or visit the website
    at http://www.su3g.org/.

The Users of Free Operating Systems (UFO Chicago)

    The Users of Free Operating Systems (UFO Chicago) is an open-source
    Unix User Group that meets twice a month in Chicago. For directions
    and mailing list information, please check our web site
    http://ufo.chicago.il.us. Chicago, IL.

Tucson Free Unix Group (TFUG)

    Tucson Free Unix Group, Arizona. Located in Tucson, AZ.

Western Pennsylvania Linux Users Group (WPLUG)

    The Western Pennsylvania Linux Users Group (WPLUG) has a strong and
    growing community of BSD users that it supports. See our home page
    (http://www.wplug.org) for information on regular meetings and join
    the mailing lists. Located in Pennsylvania.

Yavapai Free Unix Users Group

    The Yavapai Free Unix Users Group is now forming for *BSD/Linux,
    etc., users in Northern Arizona. Please contact Russel Carter
    (rcarter@consys.com) for details. Located in Northern Arizona.

Asia

Armenia BSD User Group

    We're a community of BSD Hackers, Unix Sysadmins and Unix-like
    system users who gather once a month (online and offline) to discuss
    BSD Unix related topics.

BSD Taiwan

    BSD Taiwan is a BSD user group for Taiwanese BSD users, where we can
    share knowledge, ideas, and seek help. For more information please
    visit our website.

EnderUNIX (Turkish *BSD team)

    EnderUNIX is a Turkish BSD user group that provides documentation,
    tips, mailing lists, and mirrors for BSD operating systems.

FreeBSD Indonesia User Group

    We are FreeBSD Indonesia User Group. We share, we learn all about
    the BSD system, and all about Open Source. For more information,
    visit http://www.belajarfreebsd.or.id.

meetBSD Iran

    meetbsd.ir is an Iranian BSD user group that provides conferences,
    iso, ebooks, and PKGs for BSD local users.

New Delhi BSD User Group

    The New Delhi BSD User Group (NDBUG) is a group of hobbyists,
    professionals, and enthusiasts. Our members share interests in BSD
    Unix and free implementations of Unix, as well as other open source
    software. NDBUG was founded to disseminate knowledge of BSD Unix,
    open source software, and related technologies and interests in
    India and New Delhi specifically.

The Echigo BSD Users Group (EBUG)

    The Echigo BSD Users Group is the users group for BSD users around
    Echigo (aka Niigata). For more information on our events and mailing
    lists, please check the EBUG web site.

The FreeBSD China Community

    The FreeBSD China Community was formed June 2002. We provide Web
    based support forum and wiki on FreeBSD and other *BSD technologies.

The Jogja FreeBSD Users Group

    The Jogja FreeBSD Users Group is based in Yogyakarta City,
    Indonesia. Send email to 22961476@students.ukdw.ac.id for more
    information.

The Kansai *BSD Users Group (K*BUG)

    The Kansai *BSD Users Group was established on November 13, 1999. It
    is expected to promote communication of any of the BSD variants'
    users. Some of its activities are to hold friendly parties of the
    members, and to hold seminars covering wide variety of topics.
    Please e-mail here (kbug-admin@kbug.gr.jp). Located in Kansai,
    Japan.

The MyBSD Malaysia Project

    The MyBSD Malaysia Project is a Kuala Lumpur based User Group for
    BSD users and open-source in general, promoting and supporting
    FreeBSD, OpenBSD, NetBSD and open source usage. We meet once a
    month, usually at Universiti Malaya or Restaurant Bahadur Shah. One
    of our projects is to develop a Unix file manager. Visit our web
    site or contact info@MyBSD.org.my for more information.

Oceania

BSD Users Group, Sydney (BUGS)

    The BSD Users Group, Sydney (BUGS) meets occasionally in Sydney and
    surrounds. We have members from all over NSW. To join the mailing
    list or IRC channel, visit http://www.bugs.au.freebsd.org/. Located
    in New South Wales.

BUGA, The BSD User Group of Adelaide

    We meet at irregular intervals. Join the mailing list by sending a
    message to majordomo@lemis.com with the text subscribe BUGA in the
    body. Located in South Australia.

Home Unix Users Group for Brisbane

    We meet fortnightly at meeting rooms provided by the University of
    Queensland. More information, including how to join the mailing
    lists, is available at http://www.humbug.org.au. Located in
    Queensland.

South America

BSD Chile

    The BSD Chile User Group (bsd.cl) maintains mirrors, documents, and
    mailing lists for the Chilean BSD community. The group also provides
    infrastructure for BSD events in Chile and can be reached on the IRC
    server irc.bsd.cl #BSD in addition to the www.bsd.cl web site.

Grupo de Usuarios BSD de Venezuela

    The Grupo de Usuarios BSD de Venezuela is a forum for *BSD users in
    Venezuela. For more information please contact the group admin
    Alberto Mijares.

The Brazilian FreeBSD User Group (FUG-BR)

    The Brazilian FreeBSD User Group (FUG-BR) is a Portuguese language
    oriented User Group intended to help Brazilian FreeBSD users to find
    support and articles on and about FreeBSD in the Portuguese
    language. We keep some projects such as the " FreeBSD LiveCD ".
    Currently the group has over 800 members and our mailing list has an
    average traffic of 80 messages per day. To join FUG-BR mailing list,
    visit https://www.fug.com.br/mailman/listinfo/www.

Global

The Global BSD User Groups

    The Global BSD User Groups organization was founded to help promote
    local BSD user groups by helping to share ideas and experiences with
    other BUG organizations. Our goals are:We are working on ways to
    provide remote participation through streaming video of
    presentations. You can check our website or contact us via e-mail.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 26, 2021 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
