[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Get FreeBSD
-   Release Information
    -   Production Release:
        12.4
    -   Production Release:
        13.1
    -   Production Release:
        13.2
-   Snapshot Releases
    -   Upcoming Release:
        14.0
-   Ported Applications

Testing Guide for 4.6-RELEASE

Goals

As part of our on-going effort to improve the release engineering
process, we have identified several areas that need significant quality
assurance testing during the release candidate phase. Below, we've
listed the changes in 4.6-PRERELEASE that we feel merit the most
attention due to their involving substantial changes to the system, or
having arrived late in the development cycle leading up to the release.
In general, our goal in the QA process is to attempt to check a number
of things:

-   The system has not regressed with respects to stability,
    correctness, interoperability, or performance of features present in
    prior releases.
-   New features result in the desired improvement in stability,
    correctness, interoperability, or performance.

To effectively determine this, it's desirable to test the system in a
diverse set of environments, applying a wide set of workloads, forcing
the system to operate both within and outside its normal specification.
Particular focus should often be placed on the continuing (or new)
capability of the system to perform correctly when used in concert with
systems from other vendors.

Features to explore carefully:

-   DHCP client support. This release will feature a major update of the
    ISC DHCP client (v3.0.1 RC8). The common cases have been well
    tested, but testing in more demanding or unusual environments would
    be beneficial. In particular, the new dynamic DNS update
    functionality has not been well tested.
-   sppp(4) upgrade. The ISDN project (i4b) once maintained an
    off-spring version of the SyncPPP driver, with a number of
    enhancements and bug-fixes made to it by people contributing to the
    i4b project. On the other hand, other improvements and bug-fixes of
    the regular tree's sppp driver didn't make it back to that version,
    so eventually two different SyncPPP drivers developed. The i4b
    version has been merged back in FreeBSD-current a few months ago,
    and these changes have now been folded into FreeBSD-stable as well,
    thus eliminating i4b's separate version. sppp users (of both
    flavours) should carefully test the new version. Users who
    previously used the i4b version should find all those improvements
    still being present (most notably, VJ header compression). Users who
    use sppp on hardware (HDLC) devices (like ar(4) or sr(4)) should see
    no breakage, but might notice that the negotiation of VJ header
    compression is now enabled by default. Use spppcontrol(8) to modify
    the default behaviour. Please report any breakage or oddity you
    observe to <joerg@FreeBSD.org>.
-   XFree86 4.2.0. sysinstall now installs XFree86 4.2.0 instead of
    XFree86 3.3.6; the XFree86 installation now uses ``normal'' binary
    packages instead of the special tarballs in past releases. The ports
    infrastructure now uses the XFree86 version 4 as the default version
    for satisfying dependencies.

The release notes will always be a good place to look for things to
test.

Known Issues

-   Due to a buffer truncation in sysinstall, the GNOME meta-port
    (x11/gnome) in 4.6-RC1 does not install correctly. This has been
    fixed and is functional for 4.6-RC2 (and any later release candidate
    snapshots).
-   nslookup(1) had some bugs in 4.6-RC1 and 4.6-RC2. These have been
    been corrected and should function correctly beginning with 4.6-RC3.
-   Some users have reported stability issues with tagged queueing and
    the ata(4) driver. These problems have only been observed when using
    tags on motherboard-based ATA channels.
-   Potential problems with the TCP default window size (see
    kern/34801). The default window size has been reduced from 65536 to
    57344 for 4.6-RELEASE. (Errata item needed.)
-   Some of the XFree86 configuration utilities write their generated
    configuration files in places where sysinstall isn't looking for
    them, thus complicating XFree86 installs that are initiated from
    within sysinstall. These have been changed to /etc/X11/XF86Config
    for 4.6-RELEASE. (Errata item needed.)
-   Some filenames in the ports tree are too long, thus resulting in odd
    /usr/@LongLink files after a sysinstall. These filenames have been
    shortened for 4.6-RELEASE.
-   Under some circumstances, dhclient can go into an infinite loop.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: May 15, 2021 by Allan Jude

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
