[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

FreeBSD への寄付

 

-   ホーム

-   FreeBSD とは
    -   FreeBSD が初めてという方へ
    -   特徴
    -   プロモーション活動
    -   マーケティング活動
    -   プライバシーポリシー
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   FreeBSD の入手
    -   リリース情報
    -   リリースエンジニアリング

-   ドキュメント
    -   FAQ
    -   ハンドブック
    -   port 作成者のためのハンドブック
    -   開発者のためのハンドブック
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   マニュアルページ
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   新しい貢献者のためのドキュメンテーションプロジェクト入門
    -   すべての Books と Articles

-   コミュニティ
    -   メーリングリスト
    -   フォーラム
    -   ユーザグループ
    -   イベント
    -   FreeBSD ジャーナル
    -   Q&A (外部)

-   開発
    -   プロジェクトアイディア
    -   Git リポジトリ
    -   Subversion リポジトリ
    -   GitHub ミラー
    -   コードレビュー (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   継続的インテグレーションサービス

-   サポート
    -   ベンダ
    -   セキュリティ情報
    -   障害報告
    -   障害報告の提出
    -   ウェブ上の情報

-   財団
    -   寄付
    -   ハードウェアの寄贈

-   サポート
-   ベンダ
    -   ソフトウェア
    -   ハードウェア
    -   コンサルティング
    -   インターネットサービスプロバイダ
    -   その他
-   セキュリティ情報
    -   セキュリティ勧告
    -   Errata 情報
    -   サポートされているリリース
    -   サポートが終了したリリース
    -   FreeBSD セキュリティ勧告の読み方
    -   セキュリティオフィサとチームの憲章
-   バグ報告
    -   障害報告 (PR) の提出
-   ウェブ上の情報

The power, flexibility, and reliability of FreeBSD attract a wide
variety of users and vendors. Here you will find vendors offering
commercial products and/or services for FreeBSD.

For your convenience, we have divided our growing commercial listing
into several sections. If your company supports a FreeBSD related
product, service, consulting, or support that should be added to this
page, please fill out a problem report in category
Documentation→Website. Submissions should contain a medium-sized
paragraph in length, describing your company. Please note that the
inclusion of vendors in our list does not signify our endorsement of
their products or services by the FreeBSD Project.

Software Vendors

Aestiva HTML/OS
    Aestiva HTML/OS is a complete solution for advanced, dynamic web
    site and web software development. It eliminates the need for CGI
    programming and integration tools, includes a built-in database
    engine and tools for packaging and copy-protecting commercial web
    products, and supports over a dozen platforms. Visit www.htmlos.com
    for more information.

Ahsay Online Backup Software
    Ahsay Online Backup Software is a commercial solution for ISPs and
    online backup service providers. Besides its robust backup features
    and multi-platform support, AhsayOBS is the only fully brandable
    solution on the market. AhsayOBS is user-friendly, yet feature-rich.
    Not only does it support common features like incremental file
    backup and scheduled backup, it also supports brick-level Exchange
    backup (including Outlook mails, calendar, etc). AhsayOBS is
    specially designed to backup databases such as MS SQL Server, MySQL
    Server, Oracle, MS Exchange Server, Lotus Domino Server and more.
    AhsayOBS offers high level of security. Data from multiple AhsayOBS
    can be further replicated to Ahsay Replication Server as an
    additional level of protection. Besides, data can be restored to a
    particular snapshot across different platforms. Moreover, extensive
    APIs and comprehensive reports facilitate account management. Being
    the global leader with over 150,000 installations, AhsayOBS is
    multilingual in 18 languages, and the number is growing. For more
    information and a free download, visit us at www.ahsay.com.

Aker Firewall
    Aker Firewall is a firewall solution which runs on FreeBSD. The
    firewall provides a stateful filtering engine, Network Address
    Translation (NAT), cryptography (with manual key exchange and SKIP),
    automatic responses to pre-configured events, and remote
    administration by a easy-to-use graphical interface which runs on
    many different platforms. For more information, please visit our web
    site or send a e-mail to info@mail.aker.com.br.

AM'SOFT
    AM'SOFT (Andrew Maltsev's Software) features EasySQL, an ODBC-like,
    database-independent C/C++ library. Full source code is available.

Anthemion Software Ltd.

    Anthemion Software Ltd. is a small independent software company
    based in Edinburgh, Scotland, specialising in tools to help writers
    and users of the wxWidgets application development framework. We
    provide you with the following products:

    DialogBlocks is a sizer-based GUI resource editor that allows you to
    quickly create professional-looking dialogs, wizards and frames for
    deployment on Windows, Linux, Mac or any other supported wxWidgets
    platform.

    Jutoh makes it easy to create ebooks in popular formats that you can
    sell on many ebook sites. Create your project in seconds from
    existing files using the New Project Wizard; or create your book
    from scratch using the built-in styled text editor. Select a book
    cover design from Jutoh's template, or create your own cover design
    with the built-in cover editor. Jutoh lets you start creating your
    ebooks quickly, but has plenty of features and configuration for
    more advanced use, including support for contents, index and
    endnotes pages.

AstroArch Consulting
    AstroArch Consulting, Inc. develops and licenses its ISP Billing and
    Tracking System (BATS) for FreeBSD as well as thirteen other
    Operating Systems. For more information, check out
    www.astroarch.com/, send email to info@astroarch.com, or call
    +1.512.990.9711.

Ballista
    Ballista is a network security auditing tool for evaluation of
    security postures in areas where high assurance levels are critical.
    Ballista is primarily designed to audit the remote security aspects
    of networks and runs quite well under FreeBSD.

Brown Bear Software
    Brown Bear Software produces and supports Calcium, an interactive
    Web Calendar server you use via your browser. Features include:
    dynamic calendar merging multiple views and formats; repeating
    events, email notification and reminders, iCalendar support, Palm
    Pilot synchronization, color and font customization, support for
    full HTML in event text and calendar headers and footers, popup text
    associated with any event, searching & filtering, multi-language
    support, flexible security model, and more. Calcium is very easy to
    use and fully supported. It runs anywhere that supports Perl CGIs;
    no non-standard Perl modules are necessary. A live On-Line Demo is
    available; you can download an evaluation copy (fully functional,
    but limited to a single calendar), or try your own private demo on
    our servers.

BS Project
    BS Project is an outsourcing project. The goal of the project is
    development real-time billing system for VoIP carriers. Our flagship
    product VoIP BS is designed for medium and small sized VoIP
    carriers. VoIP BS is available for FreeBSD and Linux. For further
    information, please see www.bsproject.net.

ChartDirector
    ChartDirector is suitable for various application types(desktop,
    web, console, batch, realtime...) and supports many programming
    languages and operating systems. This means your investment in
    ChartDirector will be useful for your current as well as future
    projects.

ClickTime
    ClickTime is an easy-to-use web timesheet for billing, cost
    accounting, and payroll. User-friendly and superfast, employees can
    easily enter time on any computer (Mac or PC) with an Internet
    connection. And if they forget, ClickTime will remind them. Now,
    employees don't have to wait to get back to the office to submit
    their expenses; with ClickTime they can be approved from anywhere
    without paperwork hassles. Managers are also saved those hassles
    with powerful reports, simple timesheet approval, 24-hour customer
    support, and data-export to Excel, QuickBooks, PDF, and other
    popular software. Cost effective and time saving, ClickTime requires
    no contract, no installation, and minimal training. Try our 30-day
    free trial and see for yourself that ClickTime is the simplest way
    to track employee time.

Connect Daily Web Calendar
    Connect Daily is a Java based web calendar. It provides advanced
    capabilities for scheduling resources including Gantt Chart views
    and approvals. Users can subscribe to notifications and reminders to
    receive Email messages about events as they are added. Event export
    to iCal is supported, as well as a synchronization program to export
    events to Palm and MS Outlook. Users can be authenticated against
    LDAP directories or MS Active Directory.

Cool Horizon
    Cool Horizon provides a billing package for ISPs, called Internet
    Billing. This package was designed to handle all billing needs for
    Internet Service Providers. It runs under MS-Windows. One piece of
    the software is a client/server set, with a daemon that runs on a
    UNIX server (including FreeBSD), allowing the client to do all of
    their user management under a Windows front end.

CoSORT
    CoSORT is the leading high-performance data sorting and manipulation
    package for high volumes processed on UNIX servers. CoSORT first
    shipped on UNIX in 1985 and can sort in parallel at rates exceeding
    2GB per minute. CoSORT is most commonly used for: mainframe and
    COBOL sort and data migrations; speeding very large database (VLDB)
    reorg and loads; integrating and staging massive data warehouse (and
    data webhouse) extracts in ETL and ODS environments; directly
    replacing more than a dozen third-party sort engines with plug 'n'
    play interfaces; and, for writing custom reports in
    simple-to-complex, multi-format/multi-target environments. CoSORT
    can collate and convert between more than 100 data types. Most
    importantly, CoSORT allows you to combine sorting with its
    selection, joins, aggregation, type-conversion, cross-calculation,
    remapping, and formatting functions all in a single-pass through
    your data. Visit www.cosort.com, or call 1-800-333-SORT for more
    information and your FREE 30-day trial.

Cybernet Systems
    Cybernet Systems produces the NetMAX line of Thin Servers and
    Professional Products for FreeBSD. The Thin Server Series consists
    of the FireWall (with Router), WebServer (with email and FTP), and
    FileServer (with print sharing). The NetMAX Professional contains
    these three, as well as the Discussion Group/NewsServer, dial in
    capabilities, enhanced system management and reporting functions,
    expanded support, and more. Easily install the included OS through a
    GUI and set up and manage your server through a web browser. Save
    time on mundane tasks. Access to the command line is available for
    "traditional" Unix use.

Dartware, LLC
    Dartware's flagship product, InterMapper, shows active maps that
    give a visual, real-time view of traffic flows through and between
    critical network devices and links. The status windows permit you to
    be proactive as well as reactive by displaying the percentage of
    capacity being used by any link or device. InterMapper uses pings,
    SNMP, Web, SMTP, and dozens of built-in server probes to keep tabs
    on the critical parts of your network, and let you know when you
    have problems-even before your customers call. When InterMapper
    detects a problem, it sends a notification to one or more
    responsible individuals. These sounds, emails, pages and text
    messages can be delayed or repeated to establish escalation
    schedules. InterMapper's auto-discovery and map-arrangement tools
    let you install and get it running in an hour or two.
    A non-expiring, full-functional license that lets you monitor up to
    five devices can be obtained for free. For more information, visit
    www.intermapper.com.

DBMaker
    DBMaker provides you with a professional database system with
    multimedia capabilities, a native ODBC interface, large database
    features, and cross-platform support. The unique open architecture
    and native ODBC interface give you the freedom to build custom
    applications using a wide variety of programming tools such as
    Visual Basic or Delphi, or query your database using existing
    ODBC-compliant applications. DBMaker provides excellent
    multimedia-handling capabilities, allowing you to store, search,
    retrieve, and manipulate all types of multimedia data. Binary Large
    Objects (BLOBs) allow you to ensure the integrity of your multimedia
    data by taking full advantage of the advanced security and
    crash-recovery mechanisms included in DBMaker; File Objects (FOs)
    allow you to manage your multimedia data, while maintaining the
    capability to edit individual files in the source application.
    Download a free copy now! - This free copy of DBMaker includes a
    three-user license with no time or storage limitations. Additional
    information is available at www.dbmaker.com.

dbstar
    db.* is a free, small-footprint (less than 150K) open-source
    database management system (DBMS) designed to provide powerful,
    flexible, high-performance capabilities for developing applications
    using an embedded database. By combining the network and relational
    model technologies in a single system, db.* lets you organize and
    access information efficiently, regardless of the complexity of the
    data. It is well-documented and absolutely free to use, modify and
    distribute on Open Source operating systems. db.* is very reliable
    and stable, and as all embedded databases, requires no DBA.

Devart
    Devart Delphi Data Access Components are feature-rich and
    high-performance libraries of components that provide native
    connectivity to Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite,
    Interbase, Firebird from Delphi, C++Builder, Lazarus (and Free
    Pascal) under Windows, Mac OS X, iOS, Android, Linux, and FreeBSD
    for both 32-bit and 64-bit platforms. These Data Access Components
    aim to assist programmers in developing of fast and native desktop
    and mobile applications. It provides both possibility of connection
    to Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgeSQL, SQLite, Firebird and
    Interbase by means of native data access and directly via TCP/IP
    without involving Database Client.

Easysoft Ltd
    Easysoft Ltd Easysoft's ODBC-ODBC Bridge 2000 (OOB) provides full
    access to any local ODBC data source from any remote client, such as
    Unix, Linux, OpenVMS, Windows, or other systems. For more
    information, or to download the software, please visit
    www.easysoft.com.
    Easysoft's JDBC-ODBC Bridge 2000 (JOB) provides Type 3 JDBC access
    from Java Applets or Applications on the FreeBSD platform to ODBC
    (Open Database Connectivity) data sources anywhere on the network
    where the server component of the bridge is installed. More
    information can be found on our web site

EasyStat
    EasyStat is a "counter"-like application. It will keep track of the
    number of visitors to your site, as well as gather information about
    your visitors such as their browser, operating system, referrer,
    etc. EasyStat will then display all it gathers in an elegant
    fashion, a demo of which is available on its site.

Efficient IP
    Efficient IP is US based Solutions Provider - software editor
    focused on the development of professional tools to manage IP
    networks, wide architecture of DHCP and DNS servers. Our objective
    is to provide you with a complete, simple and dynamic solution,
    which will allow you to carry out all administration of these
    services, whilst adapting to the technical, human or administrative
    constraints of your IT installation.

Eiffel Software
    Eiffel Studio is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
    designed for the Eiffel object-oriented application development
    language. Beside the Enterprise Edition, a Free Edition for
    non-commercial use only is freely available for download.

Elastic Path Software
    Elastic Path Software is the pioneer of flexible, developer
    friendly, Java ecommerce software architecture for building
    sophisticated and evolving online stores. In a world full of complex
    software, our lightweight ecommerce framework is refreshingly
    simple, provides unlimited flexibility and minimizes total cost of
    ownership. Companies such as Xerox, Sunoco, Procter & Gamble, 24
    Hour Fitness, JBoss and Random House use Elastic Path for the core
    ecommerce features they demand today and the maximum flexibility
    they need for tomorrow.

Elego

    Elego ComPact Configuration Management. Elego ComPact is a set of
    tools for configuration management, based on a very reliable and
    scalable solution for version control, integrated with a
    multi-platform language-independent build system, and the concept of
    software packages. It offers scriptable command-line-oriented
    programs, as well as an HTTP/HTML based GUI, and can be easily
    introduced in a stepwise fashion.

    Some of its features are: client/server design, baseline and release
    branch support, checkin/checkout model, package-oriented change
    sets, integrated build system, support for development for/on
    heterogeneous platforms, scalable from one to hundreds of
    developers, default configurations for C, C++, Java, Modula-3,
    easily portable to most PC and workstation platforms.

    Elego ComPact currently uses CVS as its underlying version control
    machine, though future versions may support other systems, too.
    Binaries are available for FreeBSD, Linux, Windows, and
    Solaris/SPARC systems. John Polstra's CVSup may be used for
    repository mirroring/replication. Like CVSup, Elego ComPact is
    completely written in Modula-3.

    Fully functional demo CDs, including binaries for all supported
    platforms, and documentation in HTML, DVI, PDF, and PS format can be
    obtained by sending e-mail to info@elego.de. More information is
    also available from the Elego WWW Homepage.

Empress Software Inc.
    Empress Software Inc. has developed Embedded Empress Developer's
    Toolkit. To learn more about the toolkit, please visit
    www.empress.com

Etherpage
    EtherPage provides a client/server based alphanumeric paging
    solution for Unix networks and Windows NT. Both command line and web
    interfaces are provided. Ideally suited for system and database
    administration, EtherPage allows messages to be sent automatically
    to support personnel based on database events, etc. Other features
    include links to email, integration with user-written scripts,
    multiple recipients, pagers selected by time of day/day of week,
    duplicate message suppression, long message splitting/truncation,
    job logging, and C API. Virtually all paging services are supported.

FairCom Corporation
    FairCom Corporation has provided quality database development tools
    for the professional programmer since 1979. FairCom is best known
    for its extremely portable, high-performance data management
    product, c-tree Plus. The product is released in full source code
    and supports peer-to-peer development and client-side development
    for use with the c-tree database server. The FreeBSD version offers
    advanced cross-platform functionality, including industrial quality
    transaction processing, file mirroring, huge file support and
    disaster recovery. The FairCom ODBC Driver and Crystal Report(tm)
    interfaces allow end-users to access c-tree Plus applications with
    higher level products such as Microsoft Access and Crystal Reports.
    The FairCom toolset is completed with r-tree, a powerful report
    generator and the powerful FairCom server, with heterogeneous
    network support, which allows dissimilar clients to attach to one
    platform and easily migrate to over 20 supported platforms, from
    FreeBSD to Windows to Mac. For more information, please visit
    www.faircom.com.

Ground Labs
    Ground Labs is a global leader in the development of cardholder data
    discovery software for the payment card industry. Its flagship
    products, Card Recon and Enterprise Recon, identify data storage
    risks on thousands of computer systems worldwide, helping companies
    prevent security breaches that result in the theft of customers'
    credit and debit card numbers. For more information and free trials
    of our products, visit www.groundlabs.com.

Icon Laboratories
    Icon Laboratories offers Envoy for FreeBSD. Envoy is a ported
    version of ISI's popular Envoy SNMP libraries. Each port includes
    SNMP libraries and header files for C development, a MIB compiler
    and source code for a sample agent, designed specifically for
    FreeBSD. For more information, send email to info@icon-labs.com.

IEA Software, Inc.
    Emerald Management Suite
    Emerald offers automated billing, reporting, account management,
    integrated AAA/RADIUS, CRM, customer self sign-up and management,
    usage billing, network accounting, automatic scheduling,
    provisioning and powerful security features enabling Virtual ISP and
    roaming scenarios. For more information information on Emerald
    please see the Emerald product page. A free evaluation license
    including full product support is available form the IEA download
    center. For an on-line look at the product, a web-based
    demonstration is available here. Emerald runs natively on FreeBSD
    5.0 or later.

InterBase
    InterBase is The Perfect Embedded Database. Behind every great
    client/server application, you will find a great database and very
    possibly an embedded database. The hallmark of a great embedded
    database is its ability to empower applications and deliver
    information while remaining virtually invisible to the end user and
    requiring little or no attention from the database administrator.
    That database is InterBase. InterBase's Japanese partner, RIOS
    Corporation, is now offering a port of InterBase 4 for FreeBSD.
    Additional information is available at www.interbase.com or directly
    from RIOS at http://iblinux.rios.co.jp/intl/

Interchange
    Interchange is a web application server, electronic catalog and
    database display system.

iPass
    i-Pass Alliance is the leading provider of global Internet-roaming
    solutions for Internet service providers. We provide a total
    solution that enables ISPs to join a global network and provide
    convenient, low-cost worldwide access to their traveling Internet
    subscribers. We are an independent organization, handling the
    financial settlement between you and other Internet service
    providers and enabling you to bill their subscribers for this
    service. There is no cost to join and no cost for the i-Pass
    software. The i-Pass cross-authorization and settlement software is
    compatible with all common authentication protocols and servers,
    including FreeBSD. For more information, please visit www.ipass.com.

Irie Tools
    Irie Tools develops Irie Pascal, a multi-platform compiler and
    interpreter that creates console programs and web server programs
    using the Common Gateway Interface. Features include strong support
    for Standard Pascal (ideal for learning Pascal), MySQL database
    programming, and creating programs to process large datasets (no 64K
    limit on code or data). Irie Pascal supports five different
    operating systems (FreeBSD, Windows, Linux, Solaris/x86, and
    Solaris/Sparc). There is a separate edition of Irie Pascal for each
    supported operating system, and programs created with the compiler
    in any edition can be executed (without being recompiled) by the
    interpreters in all editions. A free evaluation copy is available at
    the Irie Tools website.

journyx WebTime
    journyx WebTime is a web-based time and attendance tracking product
    for engineering departments and technical consultancies or
    contracting firms with people on the go. It was developed on
    FreeBSD. Since it is web-based, it allows for worldwide collection
    of data.

Kaspersky Lab
    Kaspersky Lab offers KasperskyT Anti-Virus (AVP) - a unique
    anti-virus solution for FreeBSD. The product provides comprehensive
    protection for your file and application servers and gateways
    running FreeBSD. Kaspersky Anti-Virus for FreeBSD includes the most
    complete set of anti-virus tools that will help you to build a
    multi-level defense system against attacks of malicious code of any
    type, including computer viruses, Internet worms and Trojan horses.
    The package includes an anti-virus scanner for on-demand check for
    viruses on data storage devices (local and network); an anti-virus
    daemon that filters data from viruses in real-time mode. Kaspersky
    Anti-Virus for FreeBSD offers an interactive configuration program
    and a utility for automatic anti-virus database updates download.
    The product also includes a ready-made solution to integrate the
    product into popular Sendmail and Qmail gateways. This is a perfect
    solution to create your own centralized filtering system for e-mail
    traffic and cleanse it of viruses. The client part of Kaspersky
    Anti-Virus for FreeBSD/BSDi is supplied in open source code. This
    enables you to easily integrate the product into your own
    applications to perform specific tasks, e.g., into other e-mail or
    application servers. Kaspersky Lab also develops anti-virus
    solutions for DOS, Windows 95/98, Windows 2000/NT
    Workstation/Server, Novell NetWare, Linux, OS/2, BSDi, MS Exchange
    Server, Lotus Notes, and MS Office 2000.

Kernun Firewall
    Kernun firewall is a commercial software package consisting of a set
    of application proxies, configuration tools and other utilities,
    delivered with their source code. It relies on FreeBSD operating
    system and a piece of hardware (currently, i386 PC and amd64 Hammer
    architectures are supported). Kernun firewall is extremely effective
    in controlling data communication on all network layers.
    Kernun firewall is designed to mediate legitimate communication
    between hosts on different networks, if it is allowed by firewall
    policy, while stopping both illegitimate communication and network
    attacks launched on one network and aiming at a different network
    protected by Kernun. It can also be used to cease misuse of network
    resources, detect and block viruses, spyware, spam and other
    unwanted content.

Lone Star Software Corp
    For over 15 years, LONE-TAR has been the de facto standard backup
    solution for the UNIX Systems Administrator. LONE-TAR is a fully
    menu-driven data-archiving and -recovery utility. It employs high
    compression, allowing it to double the capacity of your archive
    device, as well as Bit-level Verification of archived data against
    the hard disk.

Lugaru Software Ltd.
    Lugaru's Epsilon Programmer's Editor features EMACS-style &
    Brief-style key bindings, C/C++/Java, Perl, HTML, and TeX modes,
    concurrent compiler control with typescript journaling, syntax
    highlighting, asynchronous Internet support, smart indenting & tags,
    and multi-file, multi-directory search & replace. Plus full
    undo/redo, directory-spanning file patterns, command/filename
    completion, convenient keyboard macros, interactive customizability,
    and much more. Executables for FreeBSD, Linux, Windows
    95/98/NT/2000/3.1, OS/2, and DOS are included. Visit www.lugaru.com
    for details and a free evaluation copy.

MainStreet
    MainStreet Softworks develops and markets critical financial
    transaction software to the retail, mail/phone order, and eCommerce
    industries. Their primary software offering, the MainStreet Credit
    Verification Engine, provides direct credit card
    authorization/settlement services on many POSIX-compliant Host
    Operating Systems such as FreeBSD. MCVE provides all the required
    functionality to authorize and settle Major Credit Cards and is
    certified with Established Clearing Houses (processors) to ensure
    the lowest possible merchant rates. To find out more, visit our web
    site or contact us at info@mainstreetsoftworks.com.

Muonics
    Muonics' MIB Smithy is a software product for Simple Network
    Management Protocol (SNMP) developers, Management Information Base
    (MIB) designers and internet-draft authors providing a Visual
    GUI-based environment for designing, editing and compiling MIB
    modules according to the SMIv1 and SMIv2 (Structure of Management
    Information) standards. MIB Smithy is supported on several
    platforms, including FreeBSD. More information and a 15-day limited
    evaluation version can be obtained from www.muonics.com.

NAG, Ltd.
    NAG, Ltd. produces a Fortran-90 Compiler for most flavors of Unix
    (including FreeBSD), VMS, and the PC. The NAGWare f90 Compiler is a
    full implementation of Fortran 90 (which, by definition, includes
    Fortran 77) plus a single-processor implementation of HPF. For
    further information, in North America, email naginfo@nag.com, and
    elsewhere, email infodesk@nag.co.uk. Or, visit www.nag.co.uk/.

NameSurfer, Ltd.
    NameSurfer, Ltd. NameSurfer is a distributed administration tool for
    DNS data, with a WWW-based graphical user interface for remote
    Internet and Intranet DNS administration. A fully functional
    evaluation version is available for FreeBSD. For more information,
    please visit www.namesurfer.com.

NetBeans, Inc.
    NetBeans, Inc. make Java IDEs, written in Java, that run on FreeBSD.
    A complete set of Open APIs is available for extending the
    environment.

Netsville, Inc.
    Netsville, Inc. sells an Internet merchandising system called Hazel
    which allows webmasters, web consultants, or regular shopkeeps to
    create a web storefront on the Internet. Hazel interfaces with web
    servers, using SSL for security and various transaction processors
    for credit card authorization. The developers actually wrote Hazel
    using FreeBSD as their operating system. If you need a flexible
    shopping cart solution for the Internet, Hazel is your best bet.

Nettix Peru
    Nettix Peru provides value added solutions based on opensource
    software for today's Peruvian and Latin-American small and mid-range
    companies. Our main skills are in Linux, Unix, Networking, and
    Security related subjects.

Openmake
    Openmake is a GUI- and shell-based build manager that goes beyond
    beloved GNU make. Used at some of the world's largest companies for
    simple apps and complex multi-language/multi-OS applications,
    Openmake allows complete standardization and automation of the build
    process. Coupled with any version control tool (e.g. RCS), Openmake
    absolutely ensures matching source and executables. Submit your
    client build to Windows and your server build to FreeBSD at the same
    time (or AIX, HP, Sun, Sequent, OS/2). For more information, visit
    www.openmake.com.

Oracle
    Oracle distributes Berkeley DB, an embeddable database system with
    full source. Oracle Berkeley DB is tested and certified to compile
    and run on all modern operating systems including Solaris, Windows,
    Linux, Android, Mac OS/X, BSD, iPhone OS, VxWorks, and QNX to name a
    few. It offers high-end data management services, including full
    transaction support, disaster recovery, hot backup, very large
    databases, and the ability to handle large numbers of users
    concurrently. Keys and records can be arbitrarily long, and of
    arbitrary data types. Berkeley DB can store data in B+trees, hash
    tables, or sequential stores. The programmatic interfaces are
    simple, and can be called from C, C++, Java, or Perl. Berkeley DB is
    easy to install and manage, so your customers can use your
    application without learning how to be database administrators. For
    more information visit the Berkeley DB website.

Pacific Timesheet
    Pacific Timesheet is a web-based timesheet software that provides
    payroll, project, job costing, time and attendance features in one
    system. Other modules include automated approvals, billing and pay
    rates, time-off scheduling, custom reporting, iPhone timesheet, IVR
    integration, time clock integration and payroll integration. We
    support all major operating systems and browsers. Our software is
    available as a licensed or as a ASP/online version.

Parabase Technology Inc.
    Parabase Technology Inc. offers the Parabase Web-Order-System, an
    integrated set of web-based business applications that incorporate
    web-based order entry, catalog generation, shopping cart, and
    administration. It automatically calculates shipping and handling
    charges and sales tax [depending on location] and has a full invoice
    preview and email order confirmation. The system currently
    interfaces to QuickBooks and Excel; other accounting packages are
    available on request. The system is based on a highly reliable
    journalizing database concept. Additional information is available
    at www.parabase.com.

Perforce Software
    Perforce Software produces PERFORCE -- the FAST Software
    Configuration Management System. Perforce SCM streamlines the
    software development process for organizations working with multiple
    operating systems and in multiple physical locations. This
    high-powered SCM system runs on more than 50 operating systems
    including Windows, and nearly every UNIX variation, from Linux to
    Mac OS X to AS/400, providing software developers with an
    easy-to-use tool for version control, workspace management and
    atomic change transactions. Free, fully functional evaluation
    versions are available from the Perforce Web site. Organizations
    developing software that is licensed or otherwise distributed
    exclusively under an Open Source license may be eligible to obtain
    Perforce licenses gratis. Perforce Software can be reached at
    info@perforce.com or +1-510-864-7400.

pfSense
    The pfSense project is a free network firewall distribution based on
    the FreeBSD operating system with a custom kernel and including
    third party free software packages for additional functionality.
    pfSense software, with the help of the package system, is able to
    provide the same or more functionality as more common commercial
    firewalls, without any of the artificial limitations.

PixInsight
    PixInsight is an advanced, modular image processing software
    platform designed specifically for the demanding requirements of
    astrophotography and other technical imaging fields. PixInsight is
    available natively on , Linux, Mac OS X and Windows operating
    systems (both in 32-bit and 64-bit versions). For more information
    please visit our website.

Polyhedra

    Polyhedra is a main-memory, object-relational database that is
    ideally suited for mission-critical applications requiring
    event-driven, real-time responses to data changes, complex database
    designs, distributed applications, and fault tolerance for high
    availability and continuous operation.

    The Object-relational database can contain objects that handle
    IP-based protocols, with object methods running in the database
    process itself and accessible to other objects/information stored in
    the database. our web site provides an example of Polyhedra, acting
    as both the web server and the information store, including free
    downloads available for trying Polyhedra on FreeBSD in Linux mode.

QUADStor Systems
    QUADStor Systems provides storage virtualization and data
    deduplication products for FreeBSD and Linux. Benefits of QUADStor
    storage virtualization include data deduplication, data compression,
    easy management etc. The best thing is that QUADStor products are
    free for non-commercial use. For more information please visit our
    website.

REBOL
    REBOL is a new, network-based messaging language that increases
    productivity, cuts application size, and reduces application
    time-to-market. The language is human-centric, instead of
    computer-centric, and offers a new alternative to anachronistic
    programming languages like Java and C++ and scripting languages like
    PERL and Tcl. REBOL is compact, platform independent, and functions
    over a network or on a single system. It is ideally suited for
    webmasters, technicians, hobbyists, educators, experimenters, and
    any one who requires a simple, customizable, robust,
    easy-to-understand language. Download The Language of the Free (tm)
    now at www.rebol.com/downloads.html

Revolution
    Revolution is a multi-platform software development tool that
    enables developers to easily and quickly create powerful
    applications for OS X, classic Mac OS, Windows, Linux, and popular
    Unix systems (including FreeBSD)... with native look and feel on all
    platforms. For more information or to download a free 30-day trial
    evaluation edition, visit www.runrev.com.

Sendmail Inc
    Sendmail Inc. develop the commercial (Sendmail Pro) and free
    versions of sendmail, the ubiquitous mail transport agent. It
    supports FreeBSD, as well as many other Unix implementations.

SiamScan.NET
    SiamScan.NET, a Bangkok based company offers commercial web
    application software, CPA - Collaborative Portable Accounting. CPA
    is web accounting software designed to be easy enough for non
    accountants to use. Also, we offer service on maintenance and
    implementation of FreeBSD systems. For more information, email
    sale@siamscan.net, visit SiamScan.NET Website, call +66 2532
    9068-70, or fax +66 2533 4167.

Sippy Software, Inc.
    Sippy Software, Inc. is a VoIP solutions company. We enable Internet
    Telephony Service Providers (ITSP's) and the operators of voice
    networks to quickly and efficiently implement, manage, and deliver a
    wide range of IP telephony services. Our flagship product Sippy
    Softswitch is a carrier-grade SIP session controller and
    rating/billing solution as well as an extremely flexible customer
    management platform that enables the providers of IP Telephony
    services to launch, price, and provision an array of VoIP services.
    For further information, please see www.sippysoft.com. We use
    FreeBSD as a platform for running our software on and actively
    support it along with several other free software projects, such as
    SER and Sippy B2BUA, by contributing back our fixes and
    enhancements.

SoftIntegration, Inc.
    Ch is an embeddable C/C++ interpreter for cross-platform scripting,
    2D/3D plotting, numerical computing, shell programming and embedded
    scripting. Ch supports the ISO 1990 C Standard (C90), major features
    in C99 (complex numbers, variable length arrays or VLAs, type
    generic functions, long data type, etc), and C++ class. Ch has
    extensions to C language with built-in string type etc for easy
    scripting. Ch also has extensions with computational array for easy
    numerical computing and 2D/3D plotting. In addition to Ch, we also
    have a free C CGI toolkit which is similar to ASP and JSP for web
    development.

Solid Information Technology Ltd
    Solid Information Technology Ltd is the maker of a unique data
    management product, SOLID Server. It is designed for robust
    operation in demanding environments. Its small size and ease-of-use
    make it ideal for deployment to web sites, various embedded systems,
    and other environments where databases need to operate unattended.
    Free evaluation copies maybe downloaded from here.

Sophos Anti-Virus
    Sophos Plc offers Sophos Anti-Virus for FreeBSD. Sophos Anti-Virus
    is a unique solution to the virus problem, providing true
    cross-platform protection in a single, fully integrated product. The
    network-centric design provides a host of benefits for the
    protection of servers, workstations, and portables. Sophos's
    ground-breaking architecture maximizes protection, while minimizing
    performance and administrative overheads. Sophos Anti-Virus is fully
    scalable, equally at home protecting a single PC, a local network,
    or the entire enterprise. Sophos Anti-Virus is available for all
    popular desktop and network operating systems, including DOS,
    Windows 3.x/95/98/NT/2000, Unix (including FreeBSD), OS/2, Netware,
    and OpenVMS. Sophos Anti-Virus monitors all virus entry points,
    including disks, programs, documents, network drives, CD-ROMs,
    Internet downloads, email attachments, and compressed files. Over 65
    per cent of The Times Top 100 Companies use Sophos Anti-Virus to
    protect their networks from viruses. This endorsement of Sophos
    Anti-Virus protection is shared around the world. FREE evaluation
    copies may be downloaded.

Stalker Software, Inc.
    Stalker Software, Inc. offers CommuniGate Pro, The Internet
    Messaging Server. Based on the Stalker Foundation framework, it
    employs the native services of all major operating systems,
    including FreeBSD, Windows 95/98, Windows NT, Apple Rhapsody, Linux,
    Solaris, and others. The CommuniGate Pro server takes full advantage
    of modern multi-threaded and multi-processor environments, and
    includes anti-spam protection, administration via the Web, extensive
    multi-domain support, dial-up capabilities, unique IMAP
    multi-mailbox features and designed to provide access to hundreds of
    thousands of accounts, and to relay mail on the most heavily loaded
    sites. Download the FREE Trial version from www.stalker.com or
    e-mail Stalker Software Sales.

StarQuest Ventures
    StarQuest Ventures provides connectivity products that allow
    Windows, UNIX, and Java applications to access IBM host resources on
    mainframe and midrange systems. StarQuest offers StarSQL (an
    ODBC-compliant driver for connectivity to IBM's DB2 relational
    databases) and StarSQL for Java (a type 4 JDBC-compliant driver for
    DB2 access) for use with FreeBSD. These drivers implement native
    DRDA protocol over direct TCP/IP connections to a wide range of IBM
    DB2 platforms with no additional host software required. They
    include support for LOB (large object) data, encrypted passwords,
    connection pooling, and global Two-Phase Commit (2PC) transactions.
    Please visit www.starquest.com for additional information or a trial
    version.

Supportex.Net
    Supportex.Net is an outsourced server administration company, based
    in Moscow, Russia. Offers a tailored FreeBSD configuration,
    optimization and tuning services.

Tmi Dependia
    Tmi Dependia is a small Finnish software company providing software
    to develop information systems. The attribute dependencies similar
    to the ones in relational database management system normal forms
    are used in automating the software development. Multiple type
    system and database modules may be used. The product runs natively
    on FreeBSD and other UNIX systems (Linux, MuslC) on ARM64 and
    i386/AMD64 platforms.

TOLIS Group, Inc.
    TOLIS Group, Inc. develops BRU, a very powerful and and reliable
    backup solution. Among other features it offers per-file
    compression, an improved tape format with three different kinds of
    verification, and many safety checks to ensure data integrity. BRU
    fully supports versions 4.2 through 8.1 of FreeBSD. Both as a
    standalone backup tool and as a client to the enterprise-level BRU
    Server product. We offer both 32 bit and 64 bit Intel builds and can
    offer PPC, Alpha, Itanium 2, and SPARC versions if customers require
    them.

Tonec, Inc.
    Tonec, Inc. provides award-winning products and solutions for web
    development, Java applets, and Perl modules. Tonec is a developer of
    Adgen - a BMP to PFR dynamic font converter for Linux and FreeBSD.
    In addition, Tonec provides custom programming, cost-effective
    offshore software development, web design, and custom ASP and Java
    development services in its development centers located in Russia,
    Poland, and Latvia. Visit our site for more information.

Vital, Inc.
    Vital, Inc. is the maker of the CRiSP visual text editor. CRiSP is a
    development tool for FreeBSD and most other Windows, UNIX, and Linux
    platforms. CRiSP is 100% BRIEF-compatible and also emulates other
    popular editors such as vi, emacs, EDT, CUA, and Wordstar. This
    makes CRiSP a very powerful yet easy-to-use editing package with
    features like cut & paste, syntax coloring, code beautifying, code
    folding, searching, and much more.

WebHostWorks.net
    WebHostWorks.net is a small and thriving web development firm
    specializing in e-commerce integration for small and medium sized
    businesses. Our proprietary E-Cart commerce package supports
    extraordinarily usable shopping cart services with backend product
    list management, order processing, executive summary reports,
    customer review processing, and inventory projections. See
    webhostworks.net for more information.

WisdomForce Technologies, Inc.
    WisdomForce Technologies delivers software products that help
    data-intensive businesses and governmental entities to improve the
    quality, availability and continuity of the data within their IT
    systems, leading to better business decision-making, increased
    productivity, and an improved bottom line. WisdomForce's products
    focused on the real-time database data movement and data integration
    market. WisdomForce is offering solutions for real-time moving data
    across heterogeneous systems. WisdomForce is providing customers
    with software infrastructure for data replication, extract, capture,
    transformation, movement and management of data from one/many
    database to one/many database. WisdomForce FastReader for Oracle
    data transfer is capable to extract data from large production
    tables into flate files on average rate 100,000 rows per second.

X-Designer
    X-Designer from Imperial Software Technology is an advanced GUI
    Builder for FreeBSD. X-Designer makes it easy to build and test
    graphical user interfaces. Use X-Designer to quickly create a
    working X/Motif, Windows, or Java GUI from a single design. Includes
    automated GUI testing and technology to re-engineer legacy Motif
    interfaces with XD/Capture. Visit our web site for more information
    or send an e-mail to sales@ist-inc.com.

XGForce.COM
    XGForce.COM announces eCluster(tm) software. New Internet Clustering
    Technology is designed to cluster Intranet/Internet Servers into
    virtual groups, where server load balancing and fail safe is made
    possible.

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)

最終更新日: 2023年2月21日 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

法律上の注意事項 | © 1995-2023 FreeBSD プロジェクト All rights reserved.
The mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and
is used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
