[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

-   RSS 2.0 Feed

FreeBSD Press Release: October 31, 2002

The Daemon of the Opera: Opera Software Releases Version for FreeBSD

Oslo, Norway, October 31, 2002: Opera Software is proud to announce the
first golden release of its new port to the UNIX variance FreeBSD. With
FreeBSD joining the Opera family, Opera is now available on eight
different operating systems.

The BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution) operating system has its
origins at the University of California, Berkeley. It started out as a
supplement to UNIX, but over time it evolved into several operating
systems. Of the different BSD flavors available, the most widely
distributed is FreeBSD, popular among high-end users like system
administrators who are looking for a fast, reliable operating system.

"Opera and FreeBSD’s users are alike in that they emphasize and expect
stability and reliability. The match between FreeBSD and Opera should
strike a cord with many enterprise customers," says Jon S. von
Tetzchner, CEO, Opera Software ASA. "On a personal level, I’m also happy
to welcome FreeBSD users into the Opera family. FreeBSD is strictly not
only an operating system, but also a community and a philosophy with
values I know resonate well with our own."

The FreeBSD community is enthusiastic to finally be able to surf with
Opera.

"With the release of Opera for FreeBSD, FreeBSD users who download Opera
for FreeBSD can browse the Web with one of the fastest browsers
available on the market," says Robert Watson, FreeBSD Core Team member.
"FreeBSD’s reputation as a reliable and fast desktop operating system is
becoming widely known, and we are glad to see that Opera Software is
helping us create a more complete desktop environment."

Opera 6.1 for FreeBSD can be downloaded from www.opera.com.

About Opera Software

Opera Software ASA is an industry leader in the development of Web
browsers for the desktop and embedded markets, partnering with companies
such as IBM, AMD, Symbian, Canal+ Technologies, Ericsson, Sharp and
Lineo (now a division of Embedix). The Opera browser has received
international recognition from end users and the industry press for
being faster, smaller and more standards-compliant than other browsers.
Opera is available on Windows, Mac, Linux, Solaris, FreeBSD, OS/2,
Symbian OS and QNX. Opera Software ASA is a privately held company
headquartered in Oslo, Norway. Learn more about Opera at www.opera.com.

About the Berkeley Software Distribution Operating System

Berkeley Software Distribution operating system technologies were
originally developed from 1979 to 1992 by the Computer Systems Research
Group (CSRG) at the University of California at Berkeley.
Berkeley-derived operating system and networking technologies are at the
heart of most modern Unix and Unix-like operating systems. Today,
virtually every major Internet infrastructure provider uses BSD
operating systems. BSD operating system technologies are used by leading
mission- critical network computing environments and are embedded in
Internet appliance platforms that require advanced Internet
functionality, reliability and security.

About the FreeBSD Project

FreeBSD is a popular open source operating system developed by the
FreeBSD Project and its worldwide team, consisting of more than 5,000
developers funneling their work to 185 "committer" developers. It is
available free of charge from ftp.FreeBSD.org and also distributed as a
shrink-wrap software product through CompUSA, Fry’s, Borders, Ingram,
FreeBSDmall.com and others. FreeBSD includes thousands of ported
applications, including office automation, groupware and multimedia
applications, and is widely used in companies all over the world as a
web server, file server, firewall and router. FreeBSD is distributed
under the Berkeley Software Distribution license, which means that it
can be copied and modified freely or commercially. For more information
about the FreeBSD Project, visit www.FreeBSD.org.

Press Contact

Opera Software
Pal A. Hvistendahl
Marcom Director
Tel: +47 99 72 43 31
Fax: +47 24 16 40 01
pal@opera.com
US Toll Free: 1-888-624-4846, press only please

The FreeBSD Project
press@FreeBSD.org

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 26, 2021 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
