[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

-   RSS 2.0 Feed

FreeBSD in the Press

Please send details of any news stories featuring FreeBSD to
freebsd-doc@FreeBSD.org.

October 2022

-    FreeBSD comes to Amazon's lightweight hypervisor
    theregister.com, Liam Proven
    The FreeBSD developer who brought FreeBSD to Amazon EC² has now got
    it working on the company's lightweight Firecracker hypervisor.

July 2022

-    CheriBSD-based computer runs KDE for the first time
    theregister.com, Liam Proven
    Wayland and the KDE Plasma desktop now run on CheriBSD, the special
    version of FreeBSD for Arm's experimental Morello hardware.

May 2022

-    FreeBSD 13.1 is out for everything from PowerPC to x86-64
    theregister.com, Liam Proven
    The latest version of FreeBSD, 13.1, was released this week for both
    32 and 64-bit forms of x86, Arm, POWER – and 64-bit RISC-V.

March 2021

-    License to thrill
    theregister.com, Tim Anderson
    Ahead of v13.0, the FreeBSD team talks about Linux and the completed
    toolchain project that changes everything

February 2020

-    Discussing Past, Present and Future of FreeBSD Project
    itsfoss.com, Abhishek Prakash
    FreeBSD is one of the most popular BSD distributions. It is used on
    desktop, servers and embedded devices for more than two decades. We
    talked to Deb Goodkin, executive director, FreeBSD Foundation and
    discussed the past, present and future of FreeBSD project.

-    Supporting an open source operating system: a Q&A with the FreeBSD
    Foundation
    techradar.com,
    When discussing alternative operating systems to Microsoft’s Windows
    or Apple’s macOS, Linux often comes to mind. However, while Linux is
    a recreation of UNIX, FreeBSD is more of a continuation. The free
    and open source operating system was initially developed by students
    at the University of California at Berkeley which is why the BSD in
    its name stands for Berkeley Software Distribution.

August 2019

-    Meet FreeBSD Project – A Journey of 26 Years and Beyond
    pfind.com, William Chapman
    When talking about operating systems or platforms to run the whole
    computing processes for various devices, you might have heard about
    FreeBSD quite often. However, today’s implementations of this
    operating system are apparently not too well-known, and many people
    don’t know the contributions of FreeBSD in today’s computing
    technology. Since this operating system is not generally available
    for the average users, FreeBSD remains to be something that many
    people nowadays are not well-acquainted with. Yet, it has been used
    in various hardware and online platforms today, and it has been
    actively used for more than 26 years now.

June 2019

-    FreeBSD Turns 26
    LWN.net, Sean Kerner
    The FreeBSD operating system is continuing to make progress, 26
    years after it got its name. Among the areas where work is being
    done is on improved support for RISC-V, FUSE filesystem updates, C
    runtime changes, and security improvements. FreeBSD Day is
    celebrated on June 19, in recognition of the date in 1993 when the
    name FreeBSD was coined for a fork of the 386BSD project. The first
    official release of FreeBSD did not occur until November 1, 1993,
    however.

-    8 Popular Products You Didn't Know Were Built with Open Source
    DesignNews, Chris Wiltz
    A popular streaming service, video games consoles, and mobile
    messaging all owe a debt to FreeBSD.

-    FreeBSD Foundation Announces FreeBSD Day on June 19, 2019
    Brilliance Security Magazine, Editorial Staff
    The FreeBSD Foundation, supporters of FreeBSD, one of the oldest and
    largest open source computer operating systems in the world and used
    by many top corporations, has announced that June 19, 2019 is
    FreeBSD Day. FreeBSD Day marks the date in 1993 that developers
    named the new open source operating system and celebrates the impact
    FreeBSD has had on open source computing.

April 2019

-    FreeBSD ZFS vs. ZoL Performance, Ubuntu ZFS On Linux Reference
    Phoronix, Michael Larabel
    Overall, the FreeBSD ZFS On Linux port is looking good so far and we
    are looking forward to it hopefully maturing in time for FreeBSD
    13.0. Nice job to iX Systems and all of those involved, especially
    the ZFS On Linux project. Those wanting to help in testing can try
    the FreeBSD ZoL spins. Stay tuned for more benchmarks and on more
    diverse hardware as time allows and the FreeBSD ZoL support further
    matures, but so far at least the performance numbers are in good
    shape.

November 2017

-    Why did we build our solution on top of FreeBSD?
    Synergy SKY, Egil Hasting
    FreeBSD has given us the "it just works" experience, without
    sacrificing the full control. It feels and behaves mature and stable
    with great performance!

June 2016

-    FreeBSD Project: Under the Hood
    HostingAdvice.com, Alexandra Leslie
    With over 400 volunteer devs at its helm, the FreeBSD Project is a
    dynamic force that puts the control in administrators' hands.
    Project Committer Allan Jude has been a fan of the project
    since 2002. He discusses the system's internal structure and the
    feature functionality that drew him in contributing to its
    documentation and then to its development and what he's working on
    now, more than a decade later.

-    FreeBSD now available in Azure Marketplace
    Microsoft Azure Blog, Jason Anderson
    Microsoft excited to announce the availability of FreeBSD 10.3 as a
    ready-made VM image available directly from the Azure Marketplace.
    This means that not only can you quickly bring-up a FreeBSD VM in
    Azure, but also that in the event you need technical support,
    Microsoft support engineers can assist.

October 2015

-    Cascadia Community Builder Award recognizes contributor Michael
    Dexter
    Seattle GNU/Linux Conference, SeaGL Blog
    The Cascadia Community Builder Award recognizes a person who has
    made an outstanding contribution to the free software movement in
    the Cascadia region. Michael Dexter was chosen because his work with
    the Portland Linux/Unix Group and the BSD community exemplified the
    type of unsung community-building work that is so critical to the
    growth of the free software movement.

July 2015

-    Enabling on AArch64
    ARM Ltd. Blog, Andrew Wafaa
    A summary of the activities around porting to ARM's new AArch64 (or
    ARM64) platform.

March 2015

-    Running on the server: a sysadmin speaks
    iTWire, Sam Varghese
    For years now, Linux has been all the rage. But in recent times,
    there have been murmurings among some veterans long-time users after
    the introduction of systemd, the init system that seems to overstep
    its boundaries.

January 2015

-    Presenting FreeBSD! How We Made It Happen
    Digital Ocean Inc. Blog, Neal Shrader
    virtual private servers with IPv6 support are now available on the
    DigitalOcean platform in: San Francisco, New York, London,
    Amsterdam, and Singapore. DigitalOcean is also seeking tutorials,
    for which they are offering $200 USD each.

December 2014

-    Get started with FreeBSD: A brief intro for Linux users
    InfoWorld, Paul Venezia
    A brief introduction to FreeBSD for curious Linux users. Covers the
    installation and updating process, building a basic firewall,
    installing binary packages, and finally installing and configuring a
    typical web stack with Apache, PHP, and MySQL.

November 2014

-    The Foundation Announces Generous Donation and Fundraising
    Milestone
    The Foundation, The Foundation Board
    The Foundation is pleased to announce the receipt of a
    record-breaking donation from Jan Koum, CEO and Co-Founder of
    WhatsApp.

October 2014

-    Cavium to Sponsor ARMv8 Based Implementation
    PR Newswire, Cavium, Inc.
    Cavium, Inc., a leading provider of semiconductor products that
    enable intelligent processing for enterprise, data center, cloud,
    wired and wireless networking announced today that it is
    collaborating with the Foundation to develop and deliver the first
    ARMv8 reference design and implementation of the Operating System
    based on the ThunderX workload optimized processor family for next
    generation Data Center and Cloud workloads.

September 2014

-    Parole de Tux: Tux et [french]
    Captain Posix, Captain Posix
    "Parole de Tux" is a Belgian monthly podcast which talks about news
    and technical topics regarding Free and Open Source Software. For
    the first time, this episode is dedicated to. The guest, a
    developer, sums up the history of the BSDs and their differences. He
    then briefly explains similarities and differences between a typical
    Linux distribution and before moving on to the main topic: the
    graphics stack, and how performs in this area.

-    Atlantic.Net Announces SSD-based VPS Services
    Talkin' Cloud, Chris Talbot
    SSD cloud VPS hosting solutions provider Atlantic.net has rolled out
    to its data centers in Orlando, Dallas and Toronto.

January 2014

-    to support secure boot by mid-year
    ITWire, Sam Varghese
    Kirk McKusick describes the progress has been making in supporting
    UEFI secure boot, which is scheduled for inclusion in 10.1.

-    McKusick Denies Lagging on Security
    ITWire, Sam Varghese
    Kirk McKusick denies that is trailing behind when it comes to
    security practices, asserting that over the past decade has made
    good design and engineering choices in.

June 2013

-    Fixing Network Attached Storage with commodity hardware and BSD
    Boing Boing, Ben Laurie
    Ben Laurie discusses how and why he replaced a proprietary NAS with
    one based on and commodity hardware.

February 2013

-    2012 - A BSD Year in Retrospective
    OSnews, Julian Djamil
    A retrospective of all the exciting developments in the BSD-family
    of operating systems in 2012, focusing on FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD
    and Dragonfly BSD.

January 2013

-    A Decade of OS Access-control Extensibility
    ACM Queue, Robert N. M. Watson
    To discuss operating system security is to marvel at the diversity
    of deployed access-control models.

November 2012

-    A world without Linux: Where would Apache, Microsoft even Apple be
    today?
    Infoworld, Paul Venezia
    If Linux hadn't conquered the world, we'd all be running FreeBSD,
    maybe even on our desktops.

August 2012

-    FreeBSD Now Supported on Windows Server Hyper-V Via Beta Release
    Redmondmag, Kurt Mackie
    Microsoft and collaborators today announced a beta release of
    drivers that enable the open source FreeBSD 8.2 server operating
    system to run in a virtual machine (VM) using Microsoft's Hyper-V
    Server.

June 2012

-    X.Org 7.7 Goes Into FreeBSD, KMS Is Ready
    phoronix, Michael Larabel
    While X.Org 7.7 was only released last week, this updated set of X
    packages have already worked their way into FreeBSD. The FreeBSD
    developers request your help in testing.

-    Netflix Open Connect Network: FreeBSD, Not Linux
    phoronix, Michael Larabel
    This week Netflix announced their Open Connect Network as their own
    open CDN (Content Distribution Network), but rather than using Linux
    as the base for this open-source platform, they decided to use
    FreeBSD.

May 2012

-    Why Should You Use FreeBSD? Here's Some Reasons
    phoronix, Michael Larabel
    FreeBSD is wondering why are you using FreeBSD. David Chisnall of
    the FreeBSD project is working on updating their advocacy material
    regarding this leading *BSD operating system. As such, he asked on
    the mailing list "Why Are You Using FreeBSD?"

-    Colocation Provider NYI Launches East Coast Mirror for FreeBSD
    Foundation
    The WHIR, Nicole Henderson
    Colocation provider NYI announced on Friday that it has launched the
    East Coast mirror for The FreeBSD Foundation. "FreeBSD has been a
    critical component of everything we do," Phillip Koblence, VP
    operations, NYI said in a statement. "We look upon this launch as
    our way of giving back to a community whose open source projects
    have enabled us to craft customized solutions for our customers from
    the inside out."

-    FreeBSD and Microsoft Hyper-V Interoperability Expected This Summer
    Redmondmag, Kurt Mackie
    Microsoft and its partnering companies are finalizing a project that
    will enable FreeBSD interoperability with Windows Server Hyper-V.

-    FreeBSD 10 To Use Clang Compiler, Deprecate GCC
    phoronix, Michael Larabel
    As indicated by the Q1-2012 FreeBSD Status Report, LLVM's Clang
    compiler is quickly replacing GCC for this popular BSD operating
    system. The developers are also making much progress in a GNU-free
    C++11 stack. For FreeBSD 10 they're aiming for Clang as the default
    C/C++ compiler, deprecate GCC, and to have a BSD-licensed C++ stack.

-    FreeBSD Achieved A Lot In Q1'2012
    phoronix, Michael Larabel
    For the first three months of the 2012 calendar year, the FreeBSD
    project achieved a lot when it came to advancing their open
    operating system. Here's some of the interesting highlights from
    their quarterly status report.

April 2012

-    FreeBSD Gets A New X.Org With Intel KMS
    phoronix, Michael Larabel
    The FreeBSD team working on X support have announced a set of X.Org
    updates to bring the FreeBSD package support to X.Org 7.5.2, which
    now includes Intel KMS support.

March 2012

-    Most Reliable Hosting Company Sites in March 2012
    Netcraft Ltd., Netcraft
    FreeBSD the OS of 3 of the top 10 most reliable hosting company
    sites in March 202.

February 2012

-    PC-BSD 9 review ? to FreeBSD what Ubuntu is to Debian
    Linux User & Developer, Koen Vervloesem
    PC-BSD offers you a fully functional desktop environment based on
    rock solid FreeBSD technology, which makes it the perfect operating
    system for your first steps with BSD?

January 2012

-    [Review] FreeBSD 9.0
    linuxconfig.net, linuxconfig.net
    This article provides an overview of some of the new features
    available in FreeBSD 9.0.

November 2011

-    Why aren't you using FreeBSD?
    Infoworld, Paul Venezia
    This article writes about why Paul Venezia is using FreeBSD for his
    servers

September 2011

-    FreeBSD: A Faster Platform For Linux Gaming Than Linux?
    Phoronix,
    Michael Larabel shows how FreeBSD runs some linux programs faster
    than linux does.

July 2011

-    Most Reliable Hosting Company Sites in June 2011
    Netcraft Ltd., Jennifer Cownie
    FreeBSD the OS of top 3 most reliable hosting company sites in June
    2011.

March 2011

-    PC-BSD 8.2 review
    LinuxBSDos.com, LinuxBSDos.com
    LinuxBSDos.com looks at the installation (especially at the disk
    encryption features), system configuration and system management
    (including the installation of third party software packages via
    PC-BSD's PBI system) of PC-BSD 8.2.

February 2011

-    FreeBSD 8.2 expands ZFS support
    Datamation.com, Sean Michael Kerner
    The author looks at the status and the future of ZFS under FreeBSD.
    The information is based on interviews the website did with FreeBSD
    developer Josh Paetzel and Matt Olander from iXsystems.

August 2010

-    PC-BSD 8.1 review
    LinuxBSDos.com, LinuxBSDos.com
    LinuxBSDos.com looks at the installation, system configuration and
    system management (including the installation of third party
    software packages via PC-BSD's PBI system) of PC-BSD 8.1.

February 2010

-    Health Check: FreeBSD - The unknown giant
    The H, Richard Hillesley
    Richard Hillesley looks at the history of FreeBSD, the BSD license,
    Beastie and the new features in FreeBSD 8.0.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 26, 2021 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
