[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

FreeBSD への寄付

 

-   ホーム

-   FreeBSD とは
    -   FreeBSD が初めてという方へ
    -   特徴
    -   プロモーション活動
    -   マーケティング活動
    -   プライバシーポリシー
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   FreeBSD の入手
    -   リリース情報
    -   リリースエンジニアリング

-   ドキュメント
    -   FAQ
    -   ハンドブック
    -   port 作成者のためのハンドブック
    -   開発者のためのハンドブック
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   マニュアルページ
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   新しい貢献者のためのドキュメンテーションプロジェクト入門
    -   すべての Books と Articles

-   コミュニティ
    -   メーリングリスト
    -   フォーラム
    -   ユーザグループ
    -   イベント
    -   FreeBSD ジャーナル
    -   Q&A (外部)

-   開発
    -   プロジェクトアイディア
    -   Git リポジトリ
    -   Subversion リポジトリ
    -   GitHub ミラー
    -   コードレビュー (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   継続的インテグレーションサービス

-   サポート
    -   ベンダ
    -   セキュリティ情報
    -   障害報告
    -   障害報告の提出
    -   ウェブ上の情報

-   財団
    -   寄付
    -   ハードウェアの寄贈

-   サポート
-   ベンダ
    -   ソフトウェア
    -   ハードウェア
    -   コンサルティング
    -   インターネットサービスプロバイダ
    -   その他
-   セキュリティ情報
    -   セキュリティ勧告
    -   Errata 情報
    -   サポートされているリリース
    -   サポートが終了したリリース
    -   FreeBSD セキュリティ勧告の読み方
    -   セキュリティオフィサとチームの憲章
-   バグ報告
    -   障害報告 (PR) の提出
-   ウェブ上の情報

The power, flexibility, and reliability of FreeBSD attract a wide
variety of users and vendors. Here you will find vendors offering
commercial products and/or services for FreeBSD.

For your convenience, we have divided our growing commercial listing
into several sections. If your company supports a FreeBSD related
product, service, consulting, or support that should be added to this
page, please fill out a problem report in category
Documentation→Website. Submissions should contain a medium-sized
paragraph in length, describing your company. Please note that the
inclusion of vendors in our list does not signify our endorsement of
their products or services by the FreeBSD Project.

Internet Service Providers

ARP Networks
    We are a data center services provider offering VPS, dedicated
    servers, private cloud, colocation, and IP transit. FreeBSD has been
    supported on all our offerings since 2008, as well as OpenBSD.

Asergo
    EasySpeedy provides dedicated servers with colocation benefits, and
    a flexible self-service environment. We're dedicated to bringing our
    customers a wide range of automatically installed Linux and
    BSD-systems, all available at the click of a button.

Astute Hosting Incorporated
    Astute Hosting provides advanced high-availability semi-managed
    dedicated hosting with all the flexibility of co-location but at a
    better price point than most unmanaged dedicated solutions. FreeBSD
    is our OS of choice, and what we run on our own servers and
    workstations. Our bandwidth consists of 4 Tier 1's, and hundreds of
    peers across North America, Europe, and Asia.

Atlantic.net
    Atlantic.net is a leader in cloud hosting, dedicated servers,
    virtualization hosting services, and FreeBSD hosting. Users can
    deploy a FreeBSD instance in seconds and run any number of
    instances.

Berklix.Com
    English company in Munich, Germany. Bilingual consultancy & hosting.
    Virtual & physical domain hosting on diverse servers, and customer's
    own local & ISP hosted servers.

Bestbuyrdp
    Bestbuyrdp was eastablished in 2015 and offers virtual private
    servers (Droplets) from Five data centers around the world. Droplets
    range in size and price, supporting hourly or monthly billing with
    snapshot functionality. All Droplets are created on SSD drives for
    ideal performance. support was added in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Black Point GmbH
    We offer flexible solutions and serve our customers needs with
    compentent and fast support. Our services include website hosting,
    virtual Servers (VPS) and server homing (e.g. managed
    servers)/colocation for all kinds of companies. We are located in
    Germany.

bytecamp GmbH
    We run a homogenic FreeBSD environment in our own datacenter located
    in East Germany near Berlin since 2000. Our developers contribute
    code to many open source projects. bytecamp is the home for
    desktopbsd.net and both biggest German BSD communities, bsdforen.de
    and bsdgroup.de. bytecamp offers professional hosting on a FreeBSD
    cluster, enterprise email solutions, domain name registration,
    dedicated and virtual servers. We offer several shared, reseller and
    shell hosting plans on FreeBSD platform that will meet and exceed
    all of your web presence needs from small personal family web sites
    to full blown online e-commerce solutions.

Colocation America
    Colocation America provides colocation, dedicated server and VoIP
    hosting services with 22 data centers located across the United
    States. Our data centers are PCI, SAS 70, SSAE 16 and HIPAA
    compliant with security and support staff working 24/7 to support
    our 100% uptime guarantee. Customers can enjoy our FreeBSD web,
    mail, DNS and database servers dedicated servers that are hosted in
    a secure environment supported by certified data center technicians.

Colocrossing
    Colocrossing provides FreeBSD powered colocation services in 6
    locations in the US. From managed hosting to colocation, we are here
    for you.

Delimiter
    Delimiter provides unmanaged, affordable dedicated servers, and
    cloud hosting from our US based data centers. Our unmanaged service
    includes a wide range of self-serve tools including automated OS
    installations and dedicated KVM functionality. We also offer cheap
    bare metal dedicated servers. Our support technicians have 5+ years
    of Unix, BSD, and Linux sysadmin experience.

El Motaheda
    El Motaheda are specialized in providing local (Egypt) solutions for
    businesses and organizations totally centered on open source. We
    provide based firewalls and storage solutions.

eServer.ru
    We provide high quality web-hosting and VIP-hosting services in
    Russia and CIS based only on FreeBSD systems customized for hosting
    needs, dedicated servers with support of all currently available
    FreeBSD distributions.

Fast PC Networks
    We offer colocation and managed services via our data center
    facilities. We recommend FreeBSD to our colocation customers who
    want a stable and flexible platform. We provide a pure colocation
    environment or dedicated managed hosting.

File Sanctuary
    File Sanctuary is a hosting provider in the UK offering Cloud
    Servers (VPS) powered by the Xen hypervisor. Cloud Servers are
    available in a variety of sizes and prices and are billed monthly,
    giving customers total control at an affordable price. Cloud Servers
    are deployed just a few minutes after an order is received. was
    added as a supported operating system starting in January 2016.

GigeNET
    GigeNET provides dedicated servers, cloud servers, colocation, and
    DDOS protection services. We fully support FreeBSD on all our
    products as of now. We have integrated FreeBSD 9 in to our Cloud
    Server product as well.

GloboTech Communications
    GloboTech offers world class hosting services and uncompromising
    support. Their services include Dedicated Servers, Public Cloud and
    Private Cloud with Fundamental Management and a 100% Power and
    Network Uptime. Their all-SSD public cloud includes a set of
    one-click app for faster deployment, less than 90 seconds and a
    comprehensive and easy-to-use cloud portal.

Hamburgnet
    Hamburgnet provides you with experience in FreeBSD and OpenBSD based
    projects. From low-end webservers to high-end firewall and database
    clusters. Storage, server, Unix, cluster & consulting. You can visit
    our website, mail us, phone us at +49 (40) 73672322 or contact us
    via fax at +49 (40) 73672321.

Hivelocity
    Hivelocity provides dedicated servers, colocation, and cloud
    hosting. Hivelocity deploys bare-metal servers built to your exact
    specifications, virtual servers and both public and private cloud
    hosted solutions. The Hivelocity data center maintains compliance
    for HIPAA, PCI and an SSAE-16 certification. Colocated customers
    have 24/7 private and secure access to their locking cabinets within
    the Hivelocity facility. Hivelocity provides a wide range of
    bleeding edge solutions and software for thousands of businesses big
    and small.

Host Color
    Host Color (HC) provides High Performance Web Hosting and Cloud
    services with Freebsd Ceph based storage area network. Accounts and
    Cloud servers also feature High Availability and Automated
    Fault-Tolerance.

Host1
    Host1.no has been providing hosting, domains and servers from Norway
    since 2009. We offer FreeBSD virtual servers and dedicated servers.
    We also offer FreeBSD on VMs in our Elastic Cloud. All our servers
    come with native IPv6.

HostingFreak.net, Inc.
    HostingFreak is a company providing hosting services for everyone's
    needs. Whether it might be a high content, or a private website, we
    are dedicated to a high level of reliability and performance. Our
    company offers hosting services ranging from web-site hosting to
    self-managed dedicated servers.

Hostpoint AG
    With 55,000 customers and 100,000 domain names (status quo December
    2007), Hostpoint is Switzerland's leading hosting provider.
    Hostpoint offers website and application hosting services throughout
    Switzerland.

Hub Hosting Services
    Hub.Org has provided Open-Source Web Hosting services since 1997.
    Our solutions include FreeBSD VPS Hosting and self-managed VPS
    hosting among many others. Hub has several cost-effective hosting
    plans to fit your business, whether it is a new site or several busy
    ones. Hub.Org has been actively involved in several leading,
    open-source projects (FreeBSD InterNet News (INN), WU-FTPd,
    OpenSSH), and providing hosting for open-source projects include
    PostgreSQL and Horde.

IFDNRG
    IFDNRG are a UK based web and video hosting company with a wide
    range of expertise in web systems built on FreeBSD. We are focused
    on developing our network to promote high performance and highly
    scalable web services and have 10 years of experience in FreeBSD
    based solutions for web/email and video.

Integrity Host
    Integrity Host provides shared hosting, VPS (Virtual Private
    Servers), and fully managed dedicated servers that run on multiple
    versions of FreeBSD. cPanel and Fantastico are available and
    bandwidth allocation is generous.

JohnCompanies
    JohnCompanies Collocation is a specialist in both dedicated and
    virtual FreeBSD servers. Unlimited technical support comes directly
    from FreeBSD engineers with no complicated ticket system, impersonal
    auto responders and no first level techs reading from cue-cards.
    Servers are housed in a state of the art, secure hosting facility
    with multi-homed tier 1 backbone connections.

Keyway Internet Services
    Keyway Internet Services has provided premium business and
    residential solutions since 1995. Nationwide services include
    business-class hosting and dialup access. Southern California
    services include T1, Fiber, DSL, and Wireless. We feature our own
    colocation facility in Ontario, CA, and are proud to feature FreeBSD
    as a recommended platform. All clients receive live no-hold support,
    and T1/Colocation clients receive 24/7/365 support.

Kionic.com Web Hosting
    We provide fast, reliable, and affordable web hosting and reseller
    hosting services backed by fast and friendly customer service. Our
    operating system of choice is FreeBSD.

LF.net Netzwerksysteme GmbH
    LF.net Netzwerksysteme GmbH is an Internet Service Provider and
    specialist in network integration services and solutions. Founded in
    1992, with an assembled team of 25 specialists, LF.net is located in
    one of Germany's largest industrial regions in Baden-Wuerttemberg.
    We deliver german-wide Highspeed DSL, 64K ISDN Dialup and leased
    line Internet access. We also specialize in domain services,
    webserver hosting and housing, System integration services, network
    management, security and VPN solutions, virus and spam checking,
    screen design and programming as well as consulting and training.

Linevast
    Linevast has been providing reliable dedicated-server and vps
    products since 2013. The provider offers various FreeBSD templates
    for their server-products. Each product comes with free
    ddos-protection and unmetered traffic.

M5 Hosting
    We provide FreeBSD Dedicated Servers as well as other dedicated
    servers with Unix-like operating systems. All servers are customized
    to your specifications, including: disk partitions, OS version,
    package installation, number of IP Addresses, and more. Our network
    emphasizes quality bandwidth rather than quantity. We host the San
    Diego BSD Users Group mailing list and web site.

MAcomnet telecommunications company, Moscow, Russia
    CJSC MAcomnet is one of the biggest Moscow telecommunication
    companies founded in 1991 by the Moscow Metropoliten and Andrew
    Corporation (USA). Numerous customers do justice to MAcomnet service
    high quality and level, among them are large communications
    operators, Internet providers, telephone companies, banks, hotels,
    exhibition centers, embassies, well known trading companies,
    government organizations, institutions, industrial enterprises,
    scientific-research institutes, mass media. A lot of MAcomnet ISP
    servers are FreeBSD based. MAcomnet hosts cvsup4.ru.FreeBSD.org and
    cvsup5.ru.FreeBSD.org cvsup mirrors.

NetActuate
    NetActuate is a hosting company specializing in virtual FreeBSD
    hosting and managed services. The FreeBSD Virtual Private Servers
    allow users to modify the kernel, setup a firewall and many more
    options. Each VPS includes root access and a web-based control panel
    for managing the virtual environment. Technical support is handled
    in-house by FreeBSD experts who can diagnose problems and help you
    get up and running quickly. NetActuate has donated services to
    FreeBSD developers to support the community.

netcup GmbH
    Netcup is a hosting provider located in Germany and we are
    specialized in providing webhosting and virtual servers. At the
    beginning of 2013 we changed our virtualisation technology to KVM.
    This gives you the possibility to run the operating system of your
    choice. You can easily setup your vServer with just a few clicks by
    using our prepared FreeBSD image.

NQhost
    NQhost offers virtual private servers with guaranteed resources. Our
    FreeBSD VPS packages can be created in Germany or US-located data
    centers. We offer flexible tariff plans, configurations and friendly
    support.

NYI
    Established in 1996, NYI is headquartered in the heart of the Wall
    Street area, with facilities in both Lower Manhattan and
    Bridgewater, New Jersey. The company's core services include
    colocation and dedicated servers, cloud computing and managed
    services, disaster recovery and business continuity planning. NYI
    provides mission-critical data solutions for a broad range of
    industries, including media, financial services, healthcare, law,
    fashion, architecture, life sciences and real estate. NYI is SSAE
    16-, PCI and HIPPA-compliant. For more information please visit our
    website.

OPH
    OPH is a internet hosting provider located in Amsterdam. We deliver
    powerful FreeBSD dedicated servers and custom-built servers to meet
    your requirements. On the network side, all our servers include full
    100Mbps / 1Gbps connections to the Internet. For more information,
    please check our website, or call us at +31 527 688768.

OVH
    With many own datacenters on 4 continents and extensive offers for
    even the most demanding infrastructure needs, OVH is the number 3
    internet hosting company in the world and a globally leading cloud
    provider on the market. Among almost 100 other Unix/Linux
    distributions, OVH is proud to provide the latest FreeBSD versions
    for dedicated and virtual servers since FreeBSD 4.

pair Networks, Inc.
    pair Networks, a global FreeBSD-based Web hosting and domain name
    registration company, headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA, hosts
    hundreds of thousands of Web sites for businesses, bloggers,
    artists, educational institutions and non-profit organizations from
    around the world. pair Networks first went online in January 1996
    and has experienced strong growth year after year. All pair
    Networks' Web servers run the reliable FreeBSD operating system. For
    more information contact us via e-mail or phone.

peaknetworks
    peaknetworks, located in the Heart of the Alps in Austria, is a web
    hosting and domain name registration company. Our clients range from
    private bloggers to business customers. We use FreeBSD for its
    proven scalability and performance. For more information, please
    check our website or contact us via e-mail.

polarhome.com
    polarhome.com is a non commercial, educational effort for
    popularization of shell enabled operating systems and internet
    services, offering shell accounts, development environment, mail and
    other online services on all available systems (currently on
    different flavours of Linux, OpenVMS, Solaris, OpenIndiana, AIX,
    QNX, IRIX, HP-UX, Tru64, SCO OpenServer, UnixWare, FreeBSD, OpenBSD,
    NetBSD, DragonFly/BSD, MirBSD, Ultrix, Minix, GNU Hurd and
    OPENSTEP).

Quonix Networks
    Quonix Networks provides a variety of personal and enterprise
    hosting solutions powered by FreeBSD, including web, mail, secure
    shell hosting, dedicated servers and colocation.

ReliableServers
    ReliableServers provides managed and unmanaged dedicated server
    hosting and colocation. FreeBSD is our #1 installed OS, we even
    provide a local cvsup for all clients. Our datacenter is staffed
    around the clock to provide the best possible support. Visit us at
    www.ReliableServers.Com

RouterHosting
    RouterHosting, provides NVMe SSD cloud VPS servers in many locations
    around the globe. RouterHosting is established since 2008 and one of
    our main Operating Systems is FreeBSD.

Serveria
    Serveria offers shared hosting, cloud VPS, dedicated servers,
    colocation, domain registration, SSL certificates etc. All of their
    services are 100% confidential. They support and offer services
    since 2009.

SimpleRezo
    SimpleRezo, a French company, provides web hosting solutions based
    exclusively on FreeBSD and technologies (jails or dedicated server,
    Apache, PHP, Tomcat, MySQL, pgSQL...). Other services include:
    Network architecture consulting (fail-over, high availability),
    FreeBSD server administration or support (fileserver, firewalls,
    mailserver) and others more. Please visit our website to get more
    information.

Solution Point
    Based in New Delhi, India, Solution Point provides VPS Hosting on
    FreeBSD/amd64. We use only official FreeBSD and provide various
    capacities to serve most demanding requirements of full dedicated
    servers.

Sureline Broadband
    Sureline Broadband provides Carrier class internet services in
    Oregon. We also provide Consulting Services World Wide for
    Networking and FreeBSD and we provide Cloud Services, including
    FreeBSD systems.

Swishmail
    Swishmail, New York City based company, provides business email
    hosting with virus/spam-scanning running on FreeBSD amd64 on HP AMD
    Dual Opteron 64 bit servers since 1999. Swishmail is in the business
    of email hosting, shell providing, web hosting, dedicated servers,
    and email accounting.

Tarsnap
    Tarsnap is a secure online backup service for FreeBSD and other
    unix-like operating systems. Tarsnap is owned and operated by
    FreeBSD developer Colin Percival and is proud to support FreeBSD via
    donations to the FreeBSD Foundation.

TransIP
    Transip B.V. is a top 5 domain registrar in the Netherlands. TransIP
    uses FreeBSD exclusively on its own servers and offers virtual
    hosting and dedicated servers based on FreeBSD.

Venigo Internet Services
    Venigo Internet Services is a French based company, which provides
    hosting solutions like shared, dedicated, colocation hostings, and
    VPN solutions based on FreeBSD. Venigo Internet Services is also
    able to provide management and support for variety of BSD & Linux
    systems.

Virtua.Cloud
    Virtua.Cloud is a cloud hosting company, providing affordable
    FreeBSD, Linux VPS and Windows VPS in Europe with instant setup and
    hourly billing.

vStack
    vStack builds hyper-converged infrastructure providing unified
    cluster space, software defined computing, storage and networking
    capabilities, redundancy and failover features.

Vultr.com
    A cloud services provider based on 100% SSD Hardware with 14
    Optimized locations worldwide. Vultr also has many tutorials on how
    to setup various services on your VPS.

Webdrops ICT
    FreeBSD hosting based in Italy since 2004. We provide hosting on
    shared boxes, dedicated servers, co-location, gTLD and worldwide
    ccTLD registration and every DC service you may ask for. We have
    rack space available in Milan IT, Dallas US and Amsterdam NL; We can
    provide simple or complex network infrastructure and supply Brand or
    custom hardware and network equipments.

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)

最終更新日: 2023年2月21日 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

法律上の注意事項 | © 1995-2023 FreeBSD プロジェクト All rights reserved.
The mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and
is used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
