[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

FreeBSD への寄付

 

-   ホーム

-   FreeBSD とは
    -   FreeBSD が初めてという方へ
    -   特徴
    -   プロモーション活動
    -   マーケティング活動
    -   プライバシーポリシー
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   FreeBSD の入手
    -   リリース情報
    -   リリースエンジニアリング

-   ドキュメント
    -   FAQ
    -   ハンドブック
    -   port 作成者のためのハンドブック
    -   開発者のためのハンドブック
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   マニュアルページ
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   新しい貢献者のためのドキュメンテーションプロジェクト入門
    -   すべての Books と Articles

-   コミュニティ
    -   メーリングリスト
    -   フォーラム
    -   ユーザグループ
    -   イベント
    -   FreeBSD ジャーナル
    -   Q&A (外部)

-   開発
    -   プロジェクトアイディア
    -   Git リポジトリ
    -   Subversion リポジトリ
    -   GitHub ミラー
    -   コードレビュー (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   継続的インテグレーションサービス

-   サポート
    -   ベンダ
    -   セキュリティ情報
    -   障害報告
    -   障害報告の提出
    -   ウェブ上の情報

-   財団
    -   寄付
    -   ハードウェアの寄贈

-   サポート
-   ベンダ
    -   ソフトウェア
    -   ハードウェア
    -   コンサルティング
    -   インターネットサービスプロバイダ
    -   その他
-   セキュリティ情報
    -   セキュリティ勧告
    -   Errata 情報
    -   サポートされているリリース
    -   サポートが終了したリリース
    -   FreeBSD セキュリティ勧告の読み方
    -   セキュリティオフィサとチームの憲章
-   バグ報告
    -   障害報告 (PR) の提出
-   ウェブ上の情報

The power, flexibility, and reliability of FreeBSD attract a wide
variety of users and vendors. Here you will find vendors offering
commercial products and/or services for FreeBSD.

For your convenience, we have divided our growing commercial listing
into several sections. If your company supports a FreeBSD related
product, service, consulting, or support that should be added to this
page, please fill out a problem report in category
Documentation→Website. Submissions should contain a medium-sized
paragraph in length, describing your company. Please note that the
inclusion of vendors in our list does not signify our endorsement of
their products or services by the FreeBSD Project.

Hardware Vendors

42U
    42U is specialized in providing remote access solutions including
    FreeBSD compatible serial console servers, KVM switches, KVM over IP
    products, remote power reboot, and environmental monitoring. For
    more information, contact info@42u.com or visit www.42u.com.

ABMX Servers
    ABMX based in California, offers custom-build Rackmount Servers
    optimized for FreeBSD. We can custom build just about anything. If
    it can be configured, we will configure it. Please contact our
    friendly engineers at 1-800-711-1788 or visit http://www.abmx.com/.

Acnodes Corporation

    Acnodes Corporation provides FreeBSD and Linux-based computer for
    customers in the industrial control, automation industries and the
    military. Our rack mount computers, embedded systems and Panel PCs
    are fully configurable and support FreeBSD, Linux or any other
    operating system.

    Our product line includes Rackmount computers (1U to 4U rack-mount
    ready computers, standard ATX or SBC systems), Panel PCs (panel
    mount ready touch screen computer), Embedded system boxes (fan less
    all-in-one computer integrated into a rugged metal compact-size
    micro box), Monitor keyboard drawers (space-saving 1U/2U control
    console, optional for Cat6, IP KVM switch) and Rackmount LCD
    monitors (rack-mount ready LCD monitors up to 20-inch).

    Our product line configurations are illustrated on our website.
    However, most of the commercial and industrial computers are custom
    built to your exact requirements.

ActiveWire Inc.
    ActiveWire Inc. provides an extremely flexible, USB-based I/O board
    that connects to buttons, switches, and LEDs, providing a simple API
    to read and write to the I/O pins on the board. An additional EZ USB
    chip firmware downloader is available in the Ports Collection.

ASA Computers
    ASA Computers offers a wide range of performance-oriented servers,
    workstations, and networking products. We are experienced in quality
    configuration and support of FreeBSD, Linux, and other operating
    systems. Multiple-OS experience and knowledge are our strengths. We
    resell a variety of communication and networking products, including
    3COM, Cisco, Cyclades, DIGI, Livingston, and U.S. Robotics. Please
    take a look at the pre-configured systems on our web page.

Aspen Systems
    Aspen Systems is based out of Wheat Ridge, CO and has been in
    business for over 30 years offering customizable rackmount servers
    and workstations featuring FreeBSD and other open source operating
    systems. We also provide custom turn-key High Performance Computing
    Clusters for government, universities, and corporations throughout
    the world. Please contact a sales engineer today at 1(800)992-9242
    or visit our website for more information.

ATTO Technology
    For over 25 years, ATTO Technology, Inc. has been a global leader in
    storage and network connectivity and infrastructure solutions for
    data-intensive computing environments. ATTO manufactures Host Bus
    Adapters, RAID adapters, network adapters, RAID storage controllers,
    Thunderbolt-enabled Desklink devices, bridges, switches and
    software. ATTO's Celerity 16Gb Fibre Channel adapters, ExpressSAS
    12Gb SAS/SATA HBAs and SAN Storage Controllers all support 9.3 and
    10.x operating systems.

Bargain Hardware
    Bargain Hardware supply a huge variety of refurbished desktops and
    laptops, all of which are offered with FreeBSD OS installation as an
    option on the website configurator. Server and Workstation
    installation is also available by request of our sales team.

catpipe Systems
    catpipe Systems ApS provides managed services and support contracts
    for FreeBSD, implemented on rackmountable servers preloaded with
    FreeBSD.

Core Systems
    Core Systems is a global leader in Rugged Computers and Rugged
    Displays for military and industrial needs based out of California.
    We build rugged products that are deployed in ground vehicles,
    aircraft, and maritime installations worldwide.

Coyote Point Systems
    Coyote Point Systems offers the Equalizer Load Balancing Appliance.
    Equalizer distributes client UDP/TCP requests to multiple server
    machines and includes load balancing, server failure
    detection/correction, and an easy-to-use administrative interface.
    Capable of handling over 20,000 HTTP GET operations per minute,
    Equalizer enhances the Scalability, Availability and Manageability
    of any server cluster. Equalizer works with all standard protocols,
    including: HTTP, FTP, POP, SMTP, DNS, etc. Equalizer is based on the
    FreeBSD kernel.

CP Technologies
    CP Technologies designs, fabricates and integrates standard and
    custom high-performance computing platforms, data links, and LCD
    displays for military, industrial, and commercial markets.

DAVICOM Semiconductor, Inc.

    DAVICOM Semiconductor, Inc. designs, develops, and markets
    cost-effective integrated circuit (IC) solutions for mainstream
    networking and communications applications. DAVICOM is one of the
    leading suppliers of Local Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area Network
    (WAN) chip sets to international original equipment manufactures
    (OEMs) of networking and communications equipment.

    The current products of DAVICOM Semiconductor, Inc. that will
    support the FreeBSD driver are DM9102 (10M/100M PCI Fast Ethernet
    single chip), DM9102A (3.3 volts Low Power10M/100M PCI Fast Ethernet
    single chip), DM9101 (10M/100M PCI Fast Ethernet PHY chip, included
    into DM9102 single chip), DM9131 (3.3 volts Low Power10M/100M PCI
    Fast Ethernet PHY chip, included into DM9102A single chip) and
    DM9801 (1M8 Home PNA PHY chip).

Emerging Technologies
    Emerging Technologies, Inc. has high-speed serial-communications
    adapters, allowing FreeBSD systems to connect directly to leased
    lines at speeds from 56k to T1/E1. ET drivers support up to 16 T1/E1
    lines on a single FreeBSD-based PC. The adapters include a complete
    set of drivers and utilities that allow a FreeBSD machine to
    communicate directly with virtually any IP router via synchronous
    PPP, Frame Relay, X.25, and directly to Cisco brand routers with
    Cisco serial encapsulation. Full documentation and support are
    included. Hardware choices are available for both ISA and PCI buses,
    ranging from an economical single-port ISA adapter to a four T1/E1
    port PCI card with four dedicated 25MHz processors on-board. To
    contact Emerging Technologies, send E-mail to info@etinc.com.

EMT
    Based in Japan, EMT offers tailor-made Servers and Workstations
    optimized for FreeBSD. We provide high-quality and high-reliable
    systems by carrying out a thorough examination and offer Hardware
    Warranty Support. Please contact us via email or visit our website.

eRacks Open Source Systems
    eRacks Open Source Systems is a leading provider of open source
    solutions. The company manufactures rackmount computer servers,
    specializes in custom-designed systems, and offers a wide array of
    services including open source enterprise migration, security, and
    network architecture design. eRacks offers a full range of open
    source operating systems configured on its systems, including
    FreeBSD. For more information, contact eRacks at info@eracks.com.

Genstor Systems, Inc.
    Genstor Systems specializes in systems customized for FreeBSD. You
    will find Storage (like multi-TB storage using SATA disks) and
    Server options, built around quality hardware. We also build
    clusters and provide OEM services for appliance integration. Genstor
    keeps abreast of drivers and bugs so you do not have to. We
    customize systems around Linux, and x86 Solaris as well. Contact us
    via email at sales@genstor.com or call us at (877)25-SERVERS and
    test our capabilities.

HighPoint Technologies
    HighPoint sells SATA RAID Controller products which are supported
    natively by FreeBSD 6.3 and 7.0. Drivers for older versions of
    FreeBSD are available on their website. HighPoint is specialized in
    providing SATA RAID solutions, including an Enterprise Series, Value
    Line Series and Upgrade Series of RAID controllers. Their motto is
    "One Size Does Not Fit All".

Iron Systems
    Iron Systems, located in San Jose, California, is a provider of
    high-density rack-mount Internet systems, low cost hosting solutions
    and OEM integration services. System solutions are either
    built-to-order iServers with custom-configured hardware, OS, kernel
    and applications; or a set of pre-configured network infrastructure
    iEngines and iClusters, specially designed to deliver a dedicated
    application. Iron Systems backs all solutions with world-class
    technical support for FreeBSD and Linux. Our team at an average has
    over 10 years of experience in building BSD-based systems. We
    understand that our servers run your mission-critical applications -
    that's why we use only the highest quality components and test all
    systems in advance. We are confident that you will appreciate our
    approach. Give us an opportunity to serve you! Please send us email
    at info@ironsystems.com or call 1-800-921-IRON.

iXsystems
    iXsystems (formerly OffMyServer) provides FreeBSD and Linux-based
    Internet infrastructure-grade rackmount servers, network appliances,
    enterprise blade servers, and storage products to a global market.
    We use only the best quality components and do the required testing
    in advance - knowing that you are going to run your mission-critical
    applications on our servers. We are confident that you will
    appreciate our approach - give us an opportunity to server you! Send
    us an email at info@iXsystems.com.

KVM Switches Online
    KVM Switches Online is a leading provider of server room solutions
    featuring server management & server space optimization solutions
    utilizing FreeBSD compatible serial console servers and KVM
    switching products. For more information, contact
    info@kvm-switches-online.com or visit www.kvm-switches-online.com.

Minifree
    Minifree Ltd provides serviced ThinkPads with Libreboot, which is
    free and opensource boot firmware based on coreboot that replaces
    proprietary BIOS/UEFI firmware. Customers can request installation
    of FreeBSD, in whichever configuration they need, and it will be
    provided with full disk encryption. The combination of coreboot
    results in a highly robust, secure laptop. Minifree has been in
    business since 2014, and ships worldwide.

MOXA
    MOXA makes attractively priced multi-port serial cards which are
    compatible with FreeBSD's sio serial driver. The C104 / C168 family
    of 2/4/8 serial port cards features custom ASIC design, speeds up to
    921.6Kbps, surge protection, independent and software-configurable
    I/O ports and IRQs.

NCS Technologies
    NCS Technologies offers "NCS Swift Appliance Partner Program
    (NCSAPP)" for Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) and other OEMs.
    Under this program, NCS develops "turn-key" server appliances for
    its ISV partners by bundling their appliance software with its own
    hardware platforms. These appliance hardware platforms are built
    using the latest industry standard chipsets and components and can
    run FreeBSD based applications.

Netgate

    Netgate is a high quality communications appliance manufacturer that
    designs highly configurable computers engineered for low-power,
    high-throughput, dependable deployments. We offer quick deployment
    with off-the-shelf systems, specialized custom product solutions and
    an end-to-end OEM service program for large customers.

    Netgate directly supports Open Source software and Open Source
    hardware projects by providing management, engineering and support
    resources for the pfSense project.

Orbit Micro
    Orbit Micro is a system integrator of servers, workstations,
    industrial computers and networking products. Our application design
    approach allows us to maximize performance for your computing needs.
    Our products line also includes a vareity of computer components and
    peripherals as well as software. Contact us at sales@orbitmicro.com
    to speak to a sales engineer or if you have questions or comments.

PCW Microsystems, Inc.
    PCW Microsystems, Inc. offers rackmount workstations and servers,
    optimized for the FreeBSD operating system. We carry full line of
    rackmount chassis, RAID, WAN, and LAN products for FreeBSD OS.
    Please visit our web site for more information or send us an e-mail
    at sales@pcwnet.com

Perle Specialix
    Perle Specialix makes a wide variety of multi-port async serial
    expansion products. The ISA, EISA, and PCI SI/XIO host cards work
    under FreeBSD, using the si driver.

PSSC Labs
    PSSC Labs provides custom configured computer solutions to meet any
    budget or specification. Visit our website to build your computer
    just the way you want it, including hard-drive partitioning and
    operating system setup.

Psychsoftpc
    Psychsoftpc is a manufacturer of high performance computers,
    workstations and clusters with Linux or FreeBSD preinstalled upon
    request.

RackmountNet
    RackmountNet offers a full line of 1U, 2U, 3U, 4U, 5U, 7U 19"
    rackmount chassis and servers for industrial mission critical
    applications.

Servaris Corporation

    Servaris builds Premium Rack Mount, Blade Servers and Tower Servers
    as well as RAID Storage Subsystems.

    Servaris ProServ 1U Rack Servers and ProServ 2U Rack Servers and 4U
    High Performance Computing Server are all FreeBSD compatible. Almost
    all the ProServ Servers have lights-out remote management via java
    enabled web browser. Servaris will pre-install FreeBSD AMD/64 or
    i386 with a Generic or fully customized FreeBSD installation.
    Servaris Blade Servers are an 'all in one' clustering and fail-over
    solution with complete remote management via any java enabled web
    browser and feature Intel's latest 5500 Quad Core Xeon Processors.
    Servaris iStor RAID Storage Subsystems are 4GB/8GB Fibre to SAS/SATA
    and are available in 12-Bay, 16-Bay and 24-Bay Chassis. asily
    expandable, simple to maintain and completely manageable via web
    browser.

    Servaris has friendly staff that can answer your questions. Please
    give Servaris a call at 1.877.963.1900 or contact them from here.
    Servaris will provide you with Superior Quality Servers and RAID
    Systems with excellent Warranties at reasonable prices: "Servaris,
    Excellence through Passion."

Server Racks Online
    Server Racks Online computer rack superstore. At Server Racks Online
    we also allow you to easily configure our computer racks, server
    cabinets, and accessories to suit your exact requirements and your
    FreeBSD needs. Server Rack Online strives to provide a wide
    selection of server rack products and accessories for every
    solution. For more information, contact info@server-rack-online.com
    or visit www.server-rack-online.com

ServerU Inc.
    We make Server hardware for open source flavors of Unix-like
    systems. ServerU is a joint effort of FreeBSD specialist company
    with more than 15 years expertise, and ServerU itself, a US company
    based on Miami, FL. We focus on designing and making rack-mount 1U
    networking appliances completely supported by open source Unix-like
    systems. We make hardware supported and certified for FreeBSD,
    OpenBSD and Linux. We also focus on ProApps, pfSense, Vyatta (VyOS),
    Endian and other systems, as well as Juniper, Brocade and other
    networking products accelerated by Netmap and DPDK technologies. Se
    offer FreeBSD consulting, support and services on US east cost and
    Caribbean.

StoreAnyWhere.com
    StoreAnyWhere.com offers a wide range of high-performance and
    cost-effective quad- and dual-processor servers, workstations, and
    networking products with FreeBSD and Linux as their operating
    systems. Just go to our website for servers in a variety of
    configurations or custom-made systems.

SW Technology
    SW Technology offers quality Pentium machines with FreeBSD
    pre-installed.

Synergy Global Inc
    We are a FreeBSD and Linux Rackmount LCD Monitor keyboard Drawer,
    Rackmount chassis, server manufacturer and distributor.

Synetic, Inc.
    Synetic Inc. is a Canadian and North American distributor for
    IDE-to-IDE, SCSI-to-IDE and SCSI-to-SCSI RAID controllers,
    supporting the FreeBSD platform.

ThinkPenguin
    ThinkPenguin specializes in supporting free software operating
    systems via one of the largest hardware catalogs in the world. We
    stock a wide array of computers, peripherals, and accessories. What
    sets us apart is our devotion to improving hardware support for free
    software operating systems and ensuring that hardware can be
    properly and natively supported by the FreeBSD community.

Zantech KVM Australia
    Zantech KVM Australia is an Australian distributor of FreeBSD
    compatible KVM switches, KVM over IP products and serial console
    terminal servers.

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)

最終更新日: 2023年2月21日 by Sergio Carlavilla Delgado

法律上の注意事項 | © 1995-2023 FreeBSD プロジェクト All rights reserved.
The mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and
is used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
