[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Get FreeBSD
-   Release Information
    -   Production Release:
        12.4
    -   Production Release:
        13.1
    -   Production Release:
        13.2
-   Snapshot Releases
    -   Upcoming Release:
        14.0
-   Ported Applications

Testing Guide for 4.8-RELEASE

Goals

As part of our on-going effort to improve the release engineering
process, we have identified several areas that need significant quality
assurance testing during the release candidate phase. Below, we've
listed the changes in 4.8-RELEASE that we feel merit the most attention
due to their involving substantial changes to the system, or having
arrived late in the development cycle leading up to the release. In
general, our goal in the QA process is to attempt to check a number of
things:

-   The system has not regressed with respects to stability,
    correctness, interoperability, or performance of features present in
    prior releases.
-   New features result in the desired improvement in stability,
    correctness, interoperability, or performance.

To effectively determine this, it's desirable to test the system in a
diverse set of environments, applying a wide set of workloads, forcing
the system to operate both within and outside its normal specification.
Particular focus should often be placed on the continuing (or new)
capability of the system to perform correctly when used in concert with
systems from other vendors.

Features to explore carefully:

-   OpenSSL. OpenSSL was updated to 0.9.7a. Please test any SSL
    consumers on your system to make sure there have been no regressions
    in functionality.

-   IPFilter has recently been updated to version 3.4.31 and has not yet
    been thoroughly tested in -STABLE.

-   Firewire

-   libc_r - A change has been made to fix libc_r in the case when a
    non-standard value of KVA_PAGES is used in the kernel. libc_r in
    general could use testing with real applications.

-   dlinfo() added - test your shared-library heavy ports to make sure
    there are no build problems.

-   ISC DHCP 3.0.1 RC11 has recently been added to 4.8RC. This version
    of the ISC DHCP client was used in 5.0-RELEASE, and should be well
    tested, but it was only recently made available to 4.X-STABLE users
    so it has not received much testing to date in that environment.

The release notes will always be a good place to look for things to
test.

Known Issues

-   Disks attached to a Mylex controller are not seen by sysinstall.
    There is a problem because this module is loaded from the mfsroot
    floppy and the equivalent of a "camcontrol rescan" is not performed
    to discover disks after the module has loaded. Found by Julian.
    Fixed by scottl Mar 28.

-   GNOME2 does not work until the user manually runs 'fc-cache -f'.
    marcus@ has committed a fix to the port, murray@ has manually hacked
    some packages to test the proposed fixes, and kris@ will rebuild
    150+ GNOME ports

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: May 15, 2021 by Allan Jude

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
