[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Get FreeBSD
-   Release Information
    -   Production Release:
        12.4
    -   Production Release:
        13.1
    -   Production Release:
        13.2
-   Snapshot Releases
    -   Upcoming Release:
        14.0
-   Ported Applications

FreeBSD 7.2-RELEASE Release Notes

Release Highlights

The highlights in the 7.2-RELEASE are the following:

-   [amd64, i386] The FreeBSD virtual memory subsystem now supports
    fully transparent use of superpages for application memory;
    application memory pages are dynamically promoted to or demoted from
    superpages without any modification to application code. This change
    offers the benefit of large page sizes such as improved virtual
    memory efficiency and reduced TLB (translation lookaside buffer)
    misses without downsides like application changes and virtual memory
    inflexibility. This is disabled by default and can be enabled by
    setting a loader tunable vm.pmap.pg_ps_enabled to 1.

-   [amd64] The FreeBSD kernel virtual address space has been increased
    to 6GB. This allows subsystems to use larger virtual memory space
    than before. For example, zfs(8) adaptive replacement cache (ARC)
    requires large kernel memory space to cache file system data, so it
    benefits from the increased address space. Note that the ceiling on
    the kernel map size is now 60% of the size rather than an absolute
    quantity.

-   [sparc64] The FreeBSD now supports Ultra SPARC III (Cheetah)
    processor family.

-   [i386] The boot(8) BTX loader has been improved. This fixes several
    boot issues on recent machines reported for 7.1-RELEASE and before.

-   A bug in the ciss(4) driver which caused low “max device openings”
    count and led to poor performance has been fixed.

-   The sdhci(4) driver has been added. This supports PCI devices with
    class 8 and subclass 5 according to the SD Host Controller
    Specification.

-   Various network interface drivers have been improved, including
    ae(4), ath_hal(4), axe(4), bce(4), cxgb(4), fxp(4), igb(4), jme(4),
    msk(4), mxge(4), nfe(4), re(4), rl(4), sis(4), and txp(4).

-   The btpand(8) daemon from NetBSD has been added. This daemon
    provides support for Bluetooth Network Access Point (NAP), Group
    Ad-hoc Network (GN) and Personal Area Network User (PANU) profiles.

-   The jail(8) subsystem has been updated. Changes include:

    -   Multiple addresses of both IPv4 and IPv6 per jail has been
        supported. It is even possible to have jails without an IP
        address at all, which basically gives one a chrooted environment
        with restricted process view and no networking.

    -   SCTP (sctp(4)) with IPv6 in jails has been implemented.

    -   Specific CPU binding by using cpuset(1) has been implemented.
        Note that the current implementation allows the superuser inside
        of the jail to change the CPU bindings specified. This behavior
        will be fixed in the next release.

    -   A jail(8) can start with a specific route FIB now.

    -   A show jails subcommand in ddb(8) has been added.

    -   Compatibility support which permits 32-bit jail binaries to be
        used on 64-bit systems to manage jails has been added.

    -   Note that both version numbers of jail and prison in the jail(8)
        have been updated for the new features.

-   The supported version of the GNOME desktop environment (x11/gnome2)
    has been updated from 2.22 to 2.26.

-   The supported version of the KDE desktop environment has been
    updated from 3.5.10 (x11/kde3) to 4.2.2 (x11/kde4).

For more details, please see the Detailed Release Notes.

A list of all platforms currently under development can be found on the
Supported Platforms page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: May 15, 2021 by Allan Jude

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
