[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

KDE on FreeBSD

Links:
KDE FreeBSD URL: https://freebsd.kde.org/
KDE Community FreeBSD URL: https://community.kde.org/FreeBSD

Contact: Adriaan de Groot <kde@FreeBSD.org>

The KDE on FreeBSD project aims to package all of the software produced
by the KDE Community for the FreeBSD ports tree. The software includes a
full desktop environment called KDE Plasma, graphics applications,
instant messengers, a video-editing suite, as well as a tea timer and
hundreds of other applications that can be used on any FreeBSD machine.

The KDE team (kde@) is part of desktop@ and x11@ as well, building the
software stack to make FreeBSD beautiful and usable as a daily-driver
graphics-based desktop machine.

Organisational

The KDE-FreeBSD team has moved its primary communications channel (on
IRC) in with the rest of the FreeBSD world. You can now find us on
Libera.Chat, in the #freebsd-desktop channel.

Why the rename? We’ve been #kde-freebsd since 2003 or so. However,
changes in the IRC Network landscape have caused us to migrate to
Libera.Chat and join up with the rest of the desktop folk — we have a
lot of shared concerns, after all.

Big Picture

-   The new KDE Gear release — all the KDE software products that are
    not specifically KDE Frameworks or KDE Plasma, which release in a
    coordinated fashion on a regular schedule — arrived in ports the day
    it was released. Albert Astals Cid has a good blog post explaining
    the rationale behind KDE Gear.

-   Wayland support has arrived for KDE Plasma. It is now possible to
    run a KDE Plasma Wayland environment on FreeBSD machines with a
    DRM-enabled graphics card (Intel iGPU or AMDGPU).

-   There is slow-but-steady progress in reducing the dependencies of
    KDE Applications. Most FreeBSD ports are "batteries included" and
    that includes all the build-tools to create the application, but
    really, an IDE should not be a dependency of your photo-gallery
    application.

-   X11 was made optional in some of the Qt ports; this opens up
    possibilities such as "Wayland-Only" Qt, or "Framebuffer-Only". X11
    remains enabled by default.

-   Qt6 is stuck in the "it builds, and parts of it run, but not enough"
    stage and has not landed in ports; it will probably wait until after
    the next quarterly is cut.

Highlights

-   Poppler, CMake, polkit .. these underpinnings of the Free Desktop on
    FreeBSD all received their regular updates.

-   extproc/kdiff3 had some serious issues with 3-way-merges. This was
    reported by Ed Maste, and turned out to have fixes upstream.

-   x11/konsole, the terminal emulator, would not accept /bin/sh as a
    shell; this is more of an issue on FreeBSD than on Linux where bash
    is a very common choice. This was resolved upstream and landed in
    ports.

-   The regular KDE Frameworks releases (monthly) and KDE Plasma
    releases (monthly) and KDE Gear all were announced upstream and
    landed in FreeBSD ports without a fuss. Upstream CI continues to be
    updated with the latest FreeBSD ports so that CI reflects well what
    the KDE-on-FreeBSD team delivers to FreeBSD users.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: July 24, 2021 by Daniel Ebdrup Jensen

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
