[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

Ports Management Team

The FreeBSD Ports Management Team (also known as portmgr due to its
email alias) is responsible for issues relating to the FreeBSD Ports
Collection.

Charter

Discusses the goals, rights, and responsibilities of the team. The
contents of this document are approved by the FreeBSD Core Team.

Policies

Discusses current policies that the team has adopted to meet its goals,
such as timeouts for inactivity and when commits are allowed. Also
contains the policy for supported releases and branches.

Implementation Issues

Discusses how that the way that the Ports Collection is implemented
affects the above policies, and, in particular, such concepts as changes
that require regression tests and sweeping changes.

Quality Assurance Activities

A behind-the-scenes look at the efforts that are made to ensure that the
Ports Collection works as well as it possibly can.

Team Members

portmgr@FreeBSD.org: Mathieu Arnold <mat@FreeBSD.org>, Baptiste
Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>, Muhammad Moinur Rahman <bofh@FreeBSD.org>,
Luca Pizzamiglio <pizzamig@FreeBSD.org>, René Ladan <rene@FreeBSD.org>,
Tobias C. Berner <tcberner@FreeBSD.org>

Secretary: René Ladan (portmgr-secretary@FreeBSD.org)

Resources Of Interest To FreeBSD Contributors and Developers

-   Contributing to the FreeBSD Ports Collection
    An introduction to how you can help contribute to the Ports
    Collection, by either contributing new ports or helping to fix
    problems in existing ports. Included is detailed information on what
    the community will expect from you if you volunteer to maintain one
    or more ports. Also includes a list of further resources.

-   FreeBSD Porter’s Handbook
    The central reference book for FreeBSD ports submitters,
    maintainers, and committers, mostly technically oriented. It
    includes both mandatory requirements and recommendations of what
    portmgr believes are the best approaches to common problems. one or
    more ports. Also includes information about keeping with changes as
    well.

-   FreeBSD Ports Build Cluster
    These machines continually build packages on all possible
    combinations of OS release and CPU architecture (in our terminology,
    build environments), and produce error logs of problems that are
    encountered along the way.

-   FreeBSD Release Engineering for Third Party Packages
    Describes the approach used by the FreeBSD release engineering team
    to produce a high quality package set suitable for official FreeBSD
    release media, with specific emphasis on how to split up the
    packages for the release media, and how to verify that a package set
    is consistent.

-   FreeBSD Committer’s Guide
    Includes a discussion of policies and issues that are of particular
    interest to committers to the ports tree.

-   Problem Report Handling Guidelines
    While primarily aimed at FreeBSD committers, this should also be
    read by users interested in how best to attract attention to their
    PRs.

Resources Of General Interest

-   FreshPorts
    A site maintained by Dan Langille that lets you browse the state of
    the entire Ports Collection or any individual port within it.
    Includes cross-references, links, charts and graphs, and many other
    things. Of interest to users and developers alike.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: June 19, 2021 by Danilo G. Baio

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
