[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

FreeBSD Foundation

Links:
FreeBSD Foundation URL: https://www.freebsdfoundation.org
Technology Roadmap URL:
https://freebsdfoundation.org/blog/technology-roadmap/
Donate URL: https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/donate/
Foundation Partnership Program URL:
https://freebsdfoundation.org/our-donors/freebsd-foundation-partnership-program/
FreeBSD Journal URL: https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/journal/
Foundation News and Events URL:
https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/news-and-events/

Contact: Deb Goodkin <deb@FreeBSDFoundation.org>

The FreeBSD Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated
to supporting and promoting the FreeBSD Project and community worldwide.
Donations from individuals and corporations are used to fund and manage
software development projects, conferences, and developer summits. We
also provide travel grants to FreeBSD contributors, purchase and support
hardware to improve and maintain FreeBSD infrastructure, and provide
resources to improve security, quality assurance, and release
engineering efforts. We publish marketing material to promote, educate,
and advocate for the FreeBSD Project, facilitate collaboration between
commercial vendors and FreeBSD developers, and finally, represent the
FreeBSD Project in executing contracts, license agreements, and other
legal arrangements that require a recognized legal entity.

Fundraising Efforts

Thank you to everyone who made a financial contribution in 2022! We’re
still tallying up the totals and will have final numbers soon.
Unfortunately, we did not meet our fundraising goal, which reinforced
our need of having someone who can focus on encouraging organizations to
invest in FreeBSD. We will bring someone on board soon to help with that
effort.

In this Quarterly Status report you’ll read about many of the areas we
funded in Q4 to improve FreeBSD and advocate for the Project (the two
main areas we spend money on). Check out reports on the internally and
externally funded projects like Openstack on FreeBSD, Enabling Snapshots
on Filesystems Using Journaled Soft Updates, FreeBSD as a Tier 1
cloud-init Platform, and FreeBSD/riscv64 Improvements. In addition, we
provided tons of community engagement and education opportunities
virtually and in-person!

If you want to help us continue our efforts, please consider making a
donation towards our 2023 fundraising campaign!
https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/donate/

We also have a Partnership Program for larger commercial donors. You can
read about it at
https://freebsdfoundation.org/our-donors/freebsd-foundation-partnership-program/.

OS Improvements

During the last quarter of 2022, 218 src, 45 ports, and 12 doc tree
commits identified the Foundation as a sponsor. Work was committed under
Foundation sponsorship to repositories outside of FreeBSD as well, e.g.,
to the cloud-init project. Some of this sponsored work is described in
separate report entries:

-   FreeBSD as a Tier 1 cloud-init Platform

-   OpenStack on FreeBSD project update

-   Wireless Report

-   Enabling Snapshots on Filesystems Using Journaled Soft Updates

Other Foundation work in the src tree included:

-   a variety of additions and fixes from Konstantin Belousov including
    commits to the virtual memory system (e.g., ec201dd, cd08669, and
    d537d1f), and file systems (e.g., 37aea26, 83aff0f, 860399e, and
    4d903a1)

-   work from Andrew Turner on arm64 such as an implementation of
    per-superpage locks and the addition of support for an array of
    hwresets

-   more RISC-V improvements from Mitchell Horne, including improvements
    to parsing of ISA property strings, optimizations to memory
    allocation, and various documentation additions and improvements

-   follow-up commits to Mark Johnston’s work to add ZFS Support to
    makefs(8) (e.g., work to easily provide ZFS-based VM and cloud
    images and automation for better defaults from Li-Wen Hsu)

-   a variety of work from Ed Maste, including an ssh update and a
    switch to LLVM objdump.

Continuous Integration and Quality Assurance

The Foundation provides a full-time staff member and funds projects to
improve continuous integration, automated testing, and overall quality
assurance efforts for the FreeBSD project. You can read about the latest
activity for that work in a separate report entry.

FreeBSD Advocacy and Education

Much of our effort is dedicated to Project advocacy. This may involve
highlighting interesting FreeBSD work, producing literature and video
tutorials, attending events, or giving presentations. The goal of the
literature we produce is to teach people FreeBSD basics and help make
their path to adoption or contribution easier. Other than attending and
presenting at events, we encourage and help community members run their
own FreeBSD events, give presentations, or staff FreeBSD tables.

The FreeBSD Foundation sponsors many conferences, events, and summits
around the globe. These events can be BSD-related, open source, or
technology events geared towards underrepresented groups. We support the
FreeBSD-focused events to help provide a venue for sharing knowledge,
working together on projects, and facilitating collaboration between
developers and commercial users. This all helps provide a healthy
ecosystem. We support the non-FreeBSD events to promote and raise
awareness of FreeBSD, to increase the use of FreeBSD in different
applications, and to recruit more contributors to the Project. We are
continuing to attend events both in person and virtual as well as
planning the November Vendor Summit. In addition to attending and
planning virtual events, we are continually working on new training
initiatives and updating our selection of how-to guides to facilitate
getting more folks to try out FreeBSD.

Check out some of the advocacy and education work we did last quarter:

-   Sponsored the OpenZFS Developer Summit, October 24-25, 2022 in San
    Francisco, CA

-   Sponsored All Things Open, October 30-November 2, 2022 in Raleigh,
    NC

-   Sponsored and helped organize the November 2022 FreeBSD Vendor
    Summit. Videos from the Summit are available.

-   Held a new FreeBSD Friday: An Introduction to FreeBSD Services by
    Drew Gurkowski

-   Published the Fall and Winter Newsletter updates

-   New Blog Posts

    -   Meet the 2022 FreeBSD Google Summer of Code Students: Koichi
        Imai

    -   Meet the 2022 FreeBSD Google Summer of Code Students: Bojan
        Novković

    -   Keeping FreeBSD Secure: Learn the Whys and Hows with the FreeBSD
        Sec Team

    -   The FreeBSD Journal is still Free!

    -   EuroBSDCon 2022 Trip Report: Muhammad Moinur Rahman

    -   EuroBSDCon 2022 Trip Report: Patrick McEvoy

    -   Fall Foundation Software Development Update

    -   Invest in FreeBSD

    -   2022 in Review: Advocacy

    -   Foundation Sponsors Update to WireGuard Kernel Port for FreeBSD

    -   2022 in Review: Fundraising Update

    -   2022 in Review: Software Development

    -   2022 in Review: Continuous Integration and Quality Assurance
        Update

-   FreeBSD in the news:

    -   Ampere: Getting Cloud-Native with FreeBSD on OCI Ampere A1 with
        Terraform

    -   FreeBSD is Well Supported on 4th Gen AMD EPYC™ Processors

-   For a quick review of all the Foundation efforts in 2022, check out
    our 2022 Thank You Video.

We help educate the world about FreeBSD by publishing the professionally
produced FreeBSD Journal. As we mentioned previously, the FreeBSD
Journal is now a free publication. Find out more and access the latest
issues at https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/journal/.

You can find out more about events we attended and upcoming events at
https://www.freebsdfoundation.org/news-and-events/.

Legal/FreeBSD IP

The Foundation owns the FreeBSD trademarks, and it is our responsibility
to protect them. We also provide legal support for the core team to
investigate questions that arise.

Go to https://www.freebsdfoundation.org to find more about how we
support FreeBSD and how we can help you!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 23, 2023 by Lorenzo Salvadore

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
