[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Documentation
-   FAQ
-   Handbook
-   Manual Pages
-   Presentations and Papers
-   Books and Articles Online
-   Publications
-   Web Resources
-   For Newbies
-   Documentation Project
-   Archive

FreeBSD Documentation Project: Submitting documentation

I have written some documentation. How do I submit it?

First, thank you for taking the time to do this.

You should make your documentation available for review. If you can,
upload it to a website somewhere.

Then post a message to the FreeBSD-doc mailing list, with a brief
outline of the documentation and the pointer to its location, and
solicit feedback.

If, for some reason, you cannot put the documentation on a website
somewhere you can send it directly to the FreeBSD-doc mailing list. If
you do this, please only send plain-text documents.

You may wish to cc: this request for comments to another appropriate
mailing list. For example, something that relates to how to use
Subversion to keep your source tree up to date would be of interest to
the subscribers of the FreeBSD-stable mailing list. Please only cc: at
most one other mailing list.

After people have looked over your documentation, and you have had the
chance to incorporate any of their suggestions, you are ready to submit
it.

The correct way to do this is to open a Problem Report. Instructions for
doing this can be found at Bug Reports.

You do this so that your submission can be tracked. When you submit a PR
(Problem Report) it is assigned a unique number. One of the committers
can then assign the PR to themselves, and liaise with you on committing
the new documentation. For more information, see Writing FreeBSD Problem
Reports.

Make sure the "Product" is set to "Documentation" and that the
"Component" is set to either "Documentation" or "Website" as
appropriate. You should attach your files from earlier to the PR. Please
also provide links to the mailing list posts where your changes were
discussed, if appropriate.

I have made some changes to existing documentation, how do I submit them?

Again, thank you for taking the time to do this.

First off, you need to produce a special file called a diff. This diff
shows just the changes that you have made. This makes it easier for the
person doing the committing to see what you have changed, and means you
do not need to spend lots of time explaining what you have changed
(although you should still explain why you think the change should be
made).

To make a 'diff', you should;

1.  Make a copy of the file you are going to change. If you are changing
    foo.xml, do

            % cp foo.xml foo.xml.old

2.  Then, make your changes to foo.xml

            % vi foo.xml
            ... tap tap tap ...

            ... test the changes, read them for typos and so on ...

3.  Make the diff. The command to do this is

            % diff -u foo.xml.old foo.xml > foo.diff

    This looks at the difference between the two files, and writes them
    to the file foo.diff.

You can then send foo.diff back to the project. Send a PR as described
earlier, and attach the foo.diff file to the PR.

Further reading

-   Documentation Project Primer for New Contributors

-   FreeBSD Documentation Project Home

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: June 19, 2021 by Danilo G. Baio

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
