[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   About
-   Features
-   Applications
-   Advocacy
-   Marketing
-   Administration
-   News
-   Events
-   Press
-   Artwork
-   Logo
-   Donations
-   Legal Notices
-   Privacy Policy

Wireless updates

Links:
Bjoern’s Wireless Work In Progress landing page URL:
https://people.freebsd.org/~bz/wireless/

Contact: Bjoern A. Zeeb <bz@FreeBSD.org>

During the quarter not much work was publicly visible and admittedly
slightly slow. Behind the scenes wireless work was happening on two
fronts:

-   11n, 11ac, and wpa,

-   more drivers and firmware, problems, testing, and filling gaps for
    these.

While the main development for newer standards and the Intel iwlwifi
driver is sponsored by the FreeBSD Foundation, I find myself spending a
lot of private time with Realtek rtw88 and rtw89, Atheros, and Mediatek
mt76 (7921 and 7915) drivers now as well. Testing changes on bare metal
and using bhyve VMs using passthru has become more time-consuming, with
the amount of supported chipsets increasing, in order not to break other
drivers. Even different (generations of) chipsets supported by the same
driver, at times, behave differently with the same change.

A separate discussion was brought to me about the size of firmware added
to the tree for the already existing drivers and the firmware for more
drivers coming. The chicken-egg problem to solve is having firmware
available on the release media; without firmware, a lot of modern
laptops will not have any sort of outside communications available at
the time of install in their default configuration. This will be a
larger discussion to have to also solve firmware for other drivers, but
that discussion will be for another day and place.

Slightly belatedly I have started to push LinuxKPI and 802.11 changes
into the tree at the end of the year and that work will continue into
early 2023 at which point more of the aforementioned remaining drivers
will also hit the tree.

One of the main remaining problems to solve is the firmware crashes on
interface down/up cycles currently experienced with at least two
drivers.

Thankfully during the last weeks, after my call for help, multiple
people have stood up wanting to help with various drivers (especially
Realtek and Mediatek). I hope that after me catching up and pushing
things out this can accelerate progress again.

Thanks again to everyone doing testing, providing debug output, sending
in feedback, or using the drivers at this point.

For the latest state of the development, please use the freebsd-wireless
mailing list, and check the landing page, which has links to all wiki
pages for each driver status.

Sponsor: The FreeBSD Foundation

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: January 23, 2023 by Lorenzo Salvadore

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
