[FreeBSD The Power to Serve]

Donate to FreeBSD

 

-   Home

-   About
    -   Introduction
    -   Features
    -   Advocacy
    -   Marketing
    -   Privacy Policy
    -   Projects
    -   Ports

-   Get FreeBSD
    -   Release Information
    -   Release Engineering

-   Documentation
    -   FAQ
    -   Handbook
    -   Porter's Handbook
    -   Developer's Handbook
    -   Committer's Guide
    -   Manual Pages
    -   Presentations and Papers
    -   Documentation Project Primer
    -   All Books and Articles

-   Community
    -   Mailing Lists
    -   Forums
    -   User Groups
    -   Events
    -   FreeBSD Journal
    -   Q&A (external)

-   Developers
    -   Project Ideas
    -   Git Repository
    -   Subversion Repository
    -   GitHub Mirror
    -   Code Review (Phabricator)
    -   Wiki
    -   Continuous Integration Service

-   Support
    -   Vendors
    -   Security Information
    -   Bug Reports
    -   Submitting Bug Reports
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
    -   Web Resources

-   Foundation
    -   Monetary Donations
    -   Hardware Donations

-   Get FreeBSD
-   Release Information
    -   Production Release:
        12.4
    -   Production Release:
        13.1
    -   Production Release:
        13.2
-   Snapshot Releases
    -   Upcoming Release:
        14.0
-   Ported Applications

Testing Guide for 4.7-RELEASE

Goals

As part of our on-going effort to improve the release engineering
process, we have identified several areas that need significant quality
assurance testing during the release candidate phase. Below, we've
listed the changes in 4.7-RELEASE that we feel merit the most attention
due to their involving substantial changes to the system, or having
arrived late in the development cycle leading up to the release. In
general, our goal in the QA process is to attempt to check a number of
things:

-   The system has not regressed with respects to stability,
    correctness, interoperability, or performance of features present in
    prior releases.
-   New features result in the desired improvement in stability,
    correctness, interoperability, or performance.

To effectively determine this, it's desirable to test the system in a
diverse set of environments, applying a wide set of workloads, forcing
the system to operate both within and outside its normal specification.
Particular focus should often be placed on the continuing (or new)
capability of the system to perform correctly when used in concert with
systems from other vendors.

Features to explore carefully:

-   PPP. A number of significant PPP changes were merged to -STABLE
    before the code freeze. In particular, the following changes were
    made:

    -   IPv6 support
    -   Better RADIUS support (including MS-CHAP)
    -   Improved handling of bad negotiation options
    -   Improved negotiation diagnostics
    -   Improved sockaddr (RTAX) parsing
    -   More consistent compile time options (NOXXX to compile something
        out)
    -   More available macros
    -   Firewall punching
    -   Improved ``proxy'' and ``proxyall'' handling
    -   Handle connected UDP sockets on descriptor 0 in -direct mode
    -   Fix a load of typos
    -   Update to internal version 3.1

-   IPFilter has recently been updated to version 3.4.29 and has not yet
    been thoroughly tested in -STABLE.

-   ahc and ahd Adaptec SCSI drivers: There has been a major update to
    the ahc and ahd device drivers. These drivers have not yet been
    thoroughly tested in -STABLE.

-   ATA. There were some problems with tagged queuing and some CDROM
    read operations with the ATA stack in FreeBSD 4.6. These problems
    were fixed in 4.6.2, but more testing on different hardware is still
    needed.

-   Sendmail has been updated to 8.12.6. This should be a very stable
    bugfix release, but sendmail users are encouraged to help test this
    before 4.7 is released.

-   XFree86 has been updated to 4.2.1. This release fixes some security
    issues and other bugs in 4.2.0, but should have almost identical
    functionality.

-   Heimdal (Kerberos 5 support) has been updated. Kerberos 5 users are
    encouraged to test this before 4.7 is released.

The release notes will always be a good place to look for things to
test.

Known Issues

-   The 4.7-RC1 snapshots were built without packages due to some
    problems (which only recently came to light) in the bzip2 package
    support. Resolution: The RE team decided to return to gzip packages
    for 4.7-RC2 (as well as any subsequent RC snapshots and the final
    release), thus allowing this snapshot to have its normal package
    set.
-   Partially as a result of the above package problems, the ports tree
    on the 4.7-RC1/i386 ISO image is not exactly the same as the
    4.7-RC1/i386 FTP directory. Both will be eventually updated for
    subsequent RC snapshots and the final release. Resolution: Not a
    factor for subsequent snapshots.
-   Loading kernel modules on 4.7-RC1/alpha is broken. Resolution: A fix
    has been committed and will be present in 4.7-RC2/alpha.
-   When booting from the install media (e.g. a CDROM), sysinstall tries
    to load a set of modules from the mfsroot image. For some reason,
    sysinstall cannot load the module containing the aac driver; this
    results in an error dialog when starting sysinstall. Access to aac
    devices from within sysinstall is, understandably, broken by this
    error. This appears to be due to a dependency on the linux module.
    Resolution: The aac driver was brought back into the install
    kernels, and other modules were moved to modules.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last modified on: May 15, 2021 by Allan Jude

Legal Notices | © 1995-2023 The FreeBSD Project All rights reserved. The
mark FreeBSD is a registered trademark of The FreeBSD Foundation and is
used by The FreeBSD Project with the permission of The FreeBSD
Foundation. Contact
>>>>>>> b1bb5fd9 (Processing txt files in data/doc)
